libbeat/docs/shared-docker.asciidoc, before:

[[running-on-docker]]
=== Running {beatname_uc} on Docker

Docker images for {beatname_uc} are available from the Elastic Docker
registry. You can retrieve an image with a `docker pull` command.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
docker pull {dockerimage}
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

The base image is https://hub.docker.com/_/centos/[centos:7] and the source
code can be found on
{dockergithub}[GitHub].

[float]
==== Configure {beatname_uc} on Docker

The Docker image provides several methods for configuring {beatname_uc}. The
conventional approach is to provide a configuration file via a bind mount, but 
it's also possible to create a custom image with your
configuration included.

[float]
===== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {beatname_uc} on Docker is to provide +{beatname_lc}.yml+ via a bind mount.
With +docker run+, the bind mount can be specified like this:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
docker run \
  --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)"/{beatname_lc}.yml,target=/usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml \
  {dockerimage}
--------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Custom image configuration

It's possible to embed your {beatname_uc} configuration in a custom image.
Here is an example Dockerfile to achieve this:

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="auditbeat"]

["source", "dockerfile", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
FROM {dockerimage}
COPY {beatname_lc}.yml /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
USER root
RUN chown {beatname_lc} /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
USER {beatname_lc}
--------------------------------------------

endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]

["source", "dockerfile", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
FROM {dockerimage}
COPY {beatname_lc}.yml /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
--------------------------------------------

endif::[]

Commit message:

Add more detail topic about downloading docker images (#7615)

libbeat/docs/shared-docker.asciidoc, after:

[[running-on-docker]]
=== Running {beatname_uc} on Docker

Docker images for {beatname_uc} are available from the Elastic Docker
registry. The base image is https://hub.docker.com/_/centos/[centos:7].

A list of all published Docker images and tags is available at
https://www.docker.elastic.co[www.docker.elastic.co]. The source code is in
{dockergithub}[GitHub].

These images are free to use under the Elastic license. They contain open source 
and free commercial features and access to paid commercial features.  
{xpack-ref}/license-management.html[Start a 30-day trial] to try out all of the 
paid commercial features. See the 
https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions[Subscriptions] page for information about 
Elastic license levels.

==== Pulling the image

Obtaining Beats for Docker is as simple as issuing a +docker pull+ command
against the Elastic Docker registry.

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

However, version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been
released, so no Docker image is currently available for this version.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
docker pull {dockerimage}
------------------------------------------------

Alternatively, you can download other Docker images that contain only features
available under the Apache 2.0 license. To download the images, go to 
https://www.docker.elastic.co[www.docker.elastic.co]. 

endif::[]

[float]
==== Configure {beatname_uc} on Docker

The Docker image provides several methods for configuring {beatname_uc}. The
conventional approach is to provide a configuration file via a bind mount, but 
it's also possible to create a custom image with your
configuration included.

[float]
===== Bind-mounted configuration

One way to configure {beatname_uc} on Docker is to provide +{beatname_lc}.yml+ via a bind mount.
With +docker run+, the bind mount can be specified like this:

["source", "sh", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
docker run \
  --mount type=bind,source="$(pwd)"/{beatname_lc}.yml,target=/usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml \
  {dockerimage}
--------------------------------------------

[float]
===== Custom image configuration

It's possible to embed your {beatname_uc} configuration in a custom image.
Here is an example Dockerfile to achieve this:

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="auditbeat"]

["source", "dockerfile", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
FROM {dockerimage}
COPY {beatname_lc}.yml /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
USER root
RUN chown {beatname_lc} /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
USER {beatname_lc}
--------------------------------------------

endif::[]

ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="auditbeat"]

["source", "dockerfile", subs="attributes"]
--------------------------------------------
FROM {dockerimage}
COPY {beatname_lc}.yml /usr/share/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}.yml
--------------------------------------------

endif::[]
