metricbeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-aws]]
== aws module

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from AWS Cloudwatch using
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[GetMetricData API] for AWS services.
Note: extra AWS charges on GetMetricData API requests will be generated by this module.

The default metricset is `ec2`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

This module environment variable `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` and `AWS_REGION`
references in the config file to set values that need to be configurable during deployment.

There are two different kinds of AWS credentials can be used here: `access keys` and `temporary security credentials`.
`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` are the two parts of `access keys`. They are long-term credentials for
an IAM user or the AWS account root user. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys[AWS Access Keys
 and Secret Access Keys] for more details. `temporary security credentials` has a limited lifetime and consists of an access key ID,
a secret access key, and a security token which typically returned from `GetSessionToken`. MFA-enabled IAM users would
need to submit an MFA code while calling `GetSessionToken`. `aws_default_region` is to set the region for SDK to use. Please
see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_temp.html[Temporary Security Credentials] for more details.
`sts get-session-token` AWS CLI can be used to generate temporary credentials. For example. with MFA-enabled:

----
aws> sts get-session-token --serial-number arn:aws:iam::1234:mfa/your-email@example.com --token-code 456789 --duration-seconds 129600
----

Since temporary security credentials are short term, after they expire, the user needs to generate new ones and modify
the aws.yml config file with the new credentials. This will cause data loss if the config file is not update with new
credentials before the old ones expire. For Metricbeat, we recommend users to use access keys in config file to enable
aws module making AWS api calls without have to generate new temporary credentials and update the config frequently.

IAM policy is an entity that defines permissions to an object within your AWS environment. Specific permissions needs
to be added into the IAM user's policy to authorize Metricbeat to collect AWS monitoring metrics. Please see documentation
under each metricset for required permissions.

By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS Cloudwatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`.

For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

Here is an example of aws metricbeat module configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  metricsets: ["ec2"]
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN}'
  default_region: '${AWS_REGION:us-west-1}'
----

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricsets are already included:

[float]
=== `ec2`
By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS Cloudwatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`. For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

The AWS module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-ec2-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The aws module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  metricsets:
    - "ec2"
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID:""}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY:""}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN:""}'
  default_region: '${AWS_REGION:us-west-1}'
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ec2,ec2>>

include::aws/ec2.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Cherry-pick to 7.0: Collect Cloudwatch metrics from the same timestamp (#11142) (#11236)
* Collect Cloudwatch metrics from the same timestamp (#11142)

* Update aws documentation
* Add checks for instance fields in TestFetch
* Add tests for CheckTimestampInArray and FindTimestamp
* Update comment for CheckTimestampInArray
* Change test to table driven
* Adopt CheckTimestampInArray and FindTimestamp in S3 and SQS

(cherry picked from commit 43e91171d8955e0836cb3f8d1d3ca82c0d6b1bd4)

* Backport changes for CheckEventField and compareType from 1e468105b2

metricbeat/docs/modules/aws.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-aws]]
== aws module

This module periodically fetches monitoring metrics from AWS Cloudwatch using
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/API_GetMetricData.html[GetMetricData API] for AWS services.
Note: extra AWS charges on GetMetricData API requests will be generated by this module.

The default metricset is `ec2`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

This module environment variable `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`, `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`, `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN` and `AWS_REGION`
references in the config file to set values that need to be configurable during deployment.

There are two different kinds of AWS credentials can be used here: `access keys` and `temporary security credentials`.
`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY` are the two parts of `access keys`. They are long-term credentials for
an IAM user or the AWS account root user. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-sec-cred-types.html#access-keys-and-secret-access-keys[AWS Access Keys
 and Secret Access Keys] for more details. `temporary security credentials` has a limited lifetime and consists of an access key ID,
a secret access key, and a security token which typically returned from `GetSessionToken`. MFA-enabled IAM users would
need to submit an MFA code while calling `GetSessionToken`. `aws_default_region` is to set the region for SDK to use. Please
see https://docs.aws.amazon.com/IAM/latest/UserGuide/id_credentials_temp.html[Temporary Security Credentials] for more details.
`sts get-session-token` AWS CLI can be used to generate temporary credentials. For example. with MFA-enabled:

----
aws> sts get-session-token --serial-number arn:aws:iam::1234:mfa/your-email@example.com --token-code 456789 --duration-seconds 129600
----

Because temporary security credentials are short term, after they expire, the user needs to generate new ones and modify
the aws.yml config file with the new credentials. Unless https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/metricbeat/current/_live_reloading.html[live reloading]
feature is enabled for Metricbeat, the user needs to manually restart Metricbeat after updating the config file in order
to continue collecting Cloudwatch metrics. This will cause data loss if the config file is not updated with new
credentials before the old ones expire. For Metricbeat, we recommend users to use access keys in config file to enable
aws module making AWS api calls without have to generate new temporary credentials and update the config frequently.

IAM policy is an entity that defines permissions to an object within your AWS environment. Specific permissions needs
to be added into the IAM user's policy to authorize Metricbeat to collect AWS monitoring metrics. Please see documentation
under each metricset for required permissions.

By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS Cloudwatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`.

For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

Here is an example of aws metricbeat module configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  metricsets: ["ec2"]
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN}'
  default_region: '${AWS_REGION:us-west-1}'
----

[float]
== Metricsets

The following Metricsets are already included:

[float]
=== `ec2`
By default, Amazon EC2 sends metric data to CloudWatch every 5 minutes. With this basic monitoring, `period` in aws module
configuration should be larger or equal than `300s`. If `period` is set to be less than `300s`, the same cloudwatch metrics
will be collected more than once which will cause extra fees without getting more granular metrics. For example, in `US East (N. Virginia)` region, it costs
$0.01/1000 metrics requested using GetMetricData. Please see https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/[AWS Cloudwatch Pricing]
for more details. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is preferred to be set to `300s` or multiples of `300s`, such as
`600s` and `900s`. For more granular monitoring data you can enable detailed monitoring on the instance to get metrics every 1 minute. Please see
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/using-cloudwatch-new.html[Enabling Detailed Monitoring] for instructions
on how to enable detailed monitoring. With detailed monitoring enabled, `period` in aws module configuration can be any number
larger than `60s`. Since AWS sends metric data to CloudWatch in 1-minute periods, setting metricbeat module `period` less
than `60s` will cause extra API requests which means extra charges on AWS. To avoid unnecessary charges, `period` is
preferred to be set to `60s` or multiples of `60s`, such as `120s` and `180s`.

The AWS module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-aws-ec2-overview.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The aws module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: aws
  period: 300s
  metricsets:
    - "ec2"
  access_key_id: '${AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID:""}'
  secret_access_key: '${AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY:""}'
  session_token: '${AWS_SESSION_TOKEN:""}'
  default_region: '${AWS_REGION:us-west-1}'
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-aws-ec2,ec2>>

include::aws/ec2.asciidoc[]
