metricbeat/docs/modules/couchbase.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-couchbase]]
== Couchbase module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://www.couchbase.com/[Couchbase]
servers. The default metricsets are `bucket`, `cluster`, `node`.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Couchbase module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: couchbase
  metricsets: ["bucket", "cluster", "node"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:8091"]
  enabled: true
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-bucket,bucket>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-cluster,cluster>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-node,node>>

include::couchbase/bucket.asciidoc[]

include::couchbase/cluster.asciidoc[]

include::couchbase/node.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc changes (#7696 #7883 #7888 #7889 #7903 #7937 #7939 #7948 #7949 #7950)  (#8188)
* Reset modulename attribute at the end of a file (#7888)

* Add safeguard related statements for max_backoff setting (#7889)

* Add docs about append_fields (#7903)

* Add docs about append_fields
* Remove experimental tag from setup.template.json.enabled description

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing (#7939)

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing, based on integration tests

* Added review suggestions

* Add missing config options to Logstash section of reference.yml (#7883)

Closes #3062

* Fix processor autodiscovery docs for Filebeat (#7937)

{ needs escaping as otherwise asciidoc will show an empty code block.

* Add document for beat export dashboard (#7696)

* Add document for beat export dashboard

Follow up from https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/7239

* move to command reference

* address review comments

* review comments applied

* apply review feedback

* Replace golang with Go (#7948)

I've been told that using "golang" instead of "Go" is considered a faux pas in some circles. :-)

I've replaced instances in the external docs, but I did not update the changelog, readmes, or code files.

* Minor fixes to attributes in module docs (#7949)

* Add recommendation to avoid harvesting symlinks when dealing with file rotation (#7950)

metricbeat/docs/modules/couchbase.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-couchbase]]
== Couchbase module

beta[]

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://www.couchbase.com/[Couchbase]
servers. The default metricsets are `bucket`, `cluster`, `node`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Couchbase module is tested with Couchbase 4.5.1.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Couchbase module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: couchbase
  metricsets: ["bucket", "cluster", "node"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:8091"]
  enabled: true
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-bucket,bucket>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-cluster,cluster>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-couchbase-node,node>>

include::couchbase/bucket.asciidoc[]

include::couchbase/cluster.asciidoc[]

include::couchbase/node.asciidoc[]
