metricbeat/docs/modules/docker.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-docker]]
== Docker module

This module fetches metrics from https://www.docker.com/[Docker] containers. The default metricsets are: `container`, `cpu`, `diskio`, `healthcheck`, `info`, `memory` and `network`. The `image` metricset is not enabled by default.

The Docker module is currently not tested on Windows.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

It is strongly recommended that you run Docker metricsets with a
<<metricset-period,`period`>> that is 3 seconds or longer. The request to the
Docker API already takes up to 2 seconds. Specifying less than 3 seconds will
result in requests that timeout, and no data will be reported for those
requests.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Docker module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: docker
  metricsets:
    - "container"
    - "cpu"
    - "diskio"
    - "healthcheck"
    - "info"
    #- "image"
    - "memory"
    - "network"
  hosts: ["unix:///var/run/docker.sock"]
  period: 10s
  enabled: true

  # If set to true, replace dots in labels with `_`.
  #labels.dedot: false

  # To connect to Docker over TLS you must specify a client and CA certificate.
  #ssl:
    #certificate_authority: "/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"
    #certificate:           "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
    #key:                   "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-container,container>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-cpu,cpu>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-diskio,diskio>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-healthcheck,healthcheck>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-image,image>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-memory,memory>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network,network>>

include::docker/container.asciidoc[]

include::docker/cpu.asciidoc[]

include::docker/diskio.asciidoc[]

include::docker/healthcheck.asciidoc[]

include::docker/image.asciidoc[]

include::docker/info.asciidoc[]

include::docker/memory.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc changes (#7696 #7883 #7888 #7889 #7903 #7937 #7939 #7948 #7949 #7950)  (#8188)
* Reset modulename attribute at the end of a file (#7888)

* Add safeguard related statements for max_backoff setting (#7889)

* Add docs about append_fields (#7903)

* Add docs about append_fields
* Remove experimental tag from setup.template.json.enabled description

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing (#7939)

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing, based on integration tests

* Added review suggestions

* Add missing config options to Logstash section of reference.yml (#7883)

Closes #3062

* Fix processor autodiscovery docs for Filebeat (#7937)

{ needs escaping as otherwise asciidoc will show an empty code block.

* Add document for beat export dashboard (#7696)

* Add document for beat export dashboard

Follow up from https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/7239

* move to command reference

* address review comments

* review comments applied

* apply review feedback

* Replace golang with Go (#7948)

I've been told that using "golang" instead of "Go" is considered a faux pas in some circles. :-)

I've replaced instances in the external docs, but I did not update the changelog, readmes, or code files.

* Minor fixes to attributes in module docs (#7949)

* Add recommendation to avoid harvesting symlinks when dealing with file rotation (#7950)

metricbeat/docs/modules/docker.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-docker]]
== Docker module

This module fetches metrics from https://www.docker.com/[Docker] containers. The default metricsets are: `container`, `cpu`, `diskio`, `healthcheck`, `info`, `memory` and `network`. The `image` metricset is not enabled by default.

[float]
=== Compability

The Docker module is currently tested on Linux and Mac with the community
edition engine, versions 1.11 and 17.09.0-ce. It is not tested on Windows,
but it should also work there.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

It is strongly recommended that you run Docker metricsets with a
<<metricset-period,`period`>> that is 3 seconds or longer. The request to the
Docker API already takes up to 2 seconds. Specifying less than 3 seconds will
result in requests that timeout, and no data will be reported for those
requests.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Docker module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: docker
  metricsets:
    - "container"
    - "cpu"
    - "diskio"
    - "healthcheck"
    - "info"
    #- "image"
    - "memory"
    - "network"
  hosts: ["unix:///var/run/docker.sock"]
  period: 10s
  enabled: true

  # If set to true, replace dots in labels with `_`.
  #labels.dedot: false

  # To connect to Docker over TLS you must specify a client and CA certificate.
  #ssl:
    #certificate_authority: "/etc/pki/root/ca.pem"
    #certificate:           "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem"
    #key:                   "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-container,container>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-cpu,cpu>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-diskio,diskio>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-healthcheck,healthcheck>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-image,image>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-info,info>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-memory,memory>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-docker-network,network>>

include::docker/container.asciidoc[]

include::docker/cpu.asciidoc[]

include::docker/diskio.asciidoc[]

include::docker/healthcheck.asciidoc[]

include::docker/image.asciidoc[]

include::docker/info.asciidoc[]

include::docker/memory.asciidoc[]

include::docker/network.asciidoc[]
