metricbeat/docs/modules/jolokia.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-jolokia]]
== Jolokia module

This is the Jolokia module.



[float]
=== Example configuration

The Jolokia module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: jolokia
  #metricsets: ["jmx"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  namespace: "metrics"
  #path: "/jolokia/?ignoreErrors=true&canonicalNaming=false"
  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"
  jmx.mappings:
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=Runtime'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: Uptime
    #      field: uptime
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=Memory'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: HeapMemoryUsage
    #      field: memory.heap_usage
    #    - attr: NonHeapMemoryUsage
    #      field: memory.non_heap_usage
    # GC Metrics - this depends on what is available on your JVM
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=GarbageCollector,name=ConcurrentMarkSweep'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: CollectionTime
    #      field: gc.cms_collection_time
    #    - attr: CollectionCount
    #      field: gc.cms_collection_count

  jmx.application:
  jmx.instance:
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-jolokia-jmx,jmx>>

include::jolokia/jmx.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.4: #7969 and #8172 (#8183)
* Improve Jolokia docs and remove proxy restriction (#7969)

* Update links to point to new GS location (#8172)

* Run make update

metricbeat/docs/modules/jolokia.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-jolokia]]
== Jolokia module

This module collects metrics from
https://jolokia.org/reference/html/agents.html[Jolokia agents] running on a
target JMX server or dedicated proxy server. The default metricset is `jmx`.

To collect metrics, {beatname_uc} communicates with a Jolokia HTTP/REST
endpoint that exposes the JMX metrics over HTTP/REST/JSON.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Jolokia module is tested with Jolokia 1.5.0. It should work with version
1.2.2 and later.



[float]
=== Example configuration

The Jolokia module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: jolokia
  #metricsets: ["jmx"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost"]
  namespace: "metrics"
  #path: "/jolokia/?ignoreErrors=true&canonicalNaming=false"
  #username: "user"
  #password: "secret"
  jmx.mappings:
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=Runtime'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: Uptime
    #      field: uptime
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=Memory'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: HeapMemoryUsage
    #      field: memory.heap_usage
    #    - attr: NonHeapMemoryUsage
    #      field: memory.non_heap_usage
    # GC Metrics - this depends on what is available on your JVM
    #- mbean: 'java.lang:type=GarbageCollector,name=ConcurrentMarkSweep'
    #  attributes:
    #    - attr: CollectionTime
    #      field: gc.cms_collection_time
    #    - attr: CollectionCount
    #      field: gc.cms_collection_count

  jmx.application:
  jmx.instance:
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-jolokia-jmx,jmx>>

include::jolokia/jmx.asciidoc[]
