metricbeat/docs/modules/kibana.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-kibana]]
== Kibana module

beta[]

The Kibana module only tracks the high-level metrics. To monitor more Kibana metrics, use our {monitoringdoc}/xpack-monitoring.html[monitoring] feature.

The default metricset is `status`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Kibana module is tested with Kibana 6.3.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Kibana module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: kibana
  metricsets: ["status"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:5601"]
  basepath: ""
  enabled: true
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.
It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-kibana-stats,stats>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-kibana-status,status>>

include::kibana/stats.asciidoc[]

include::kibana/status.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Remove experimental log message when xpack.enabled flag is set (#10222) (#10282)
* Remove experimental log message when xpack.enabled flag is set

* Add CHANGELOG entry

* Generate docs

(cherry picked from commit 971994fde4fb31e4760b2947a77c32048c5e667d)

metricbeat/docs/modules/kibana.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-kibana]]
== Kibana module

beta[]

The Kibana module only tracks the high-level metrics. To monitor more Kibana metrics, use our {monitoringdoc}/xpack-monitoring.html[monitoring] feature.

The default metricset is `status`.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The Kibana module is tested with Kibana 6.3.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The Kibana module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: kibana
  metricsets: ["status"]
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:5601"]
  basepath: ""
  enabled: true

  # Set to true to send data collected by module to X-Pack
  # Monitoring instead of metricbeat-* indices.
  #xpack.enabled: false
----

This module supports TLS connections when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>.
It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-kibana-stats,stats>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-kibana-status,status>>

include::kibana/stats.asciidoc[]

include::kibana/status.asciidoc[]
