metricbeat/docs/modules/mysql.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-mysql]]
== MySQL module

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://www.mysql.com/[MySQL]
servers.

The default metricset is `status`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

When configuring the `hosts` option, you must use a MySQL Data Source Name (DSN)
of the following format:

----
[username[:password]@][protocol[(address)]]/
----

You can also separately specify the username and password using the respective
configuration options. Usernames and passwords specified in the DSN take
precedence over those specified in the `username` and `password` config options.

----
- module: mysql
  metricsets: ["status"]
  hosts: ["tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"]
  username: root
  password: secret
----

[float]
=== Compatibility

The mysql MetricSets were tested with mysql 5.7.12 and are expected to work with
all versions >= 5.7.0.

[float]
=== Dashboard

The mysql module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-mysql.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The MySQL module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mysql
  metricsets:
    - "status"
  #  - "galera_status"
  period: 10s

  # Host DSN should be defined as "user:pass@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"
  # The username and password can either be set in the DSN or using the username
  # and password config options. Those specified in the DSN take precedence.
  hosts: ["root:secret@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"]

  # Username of hosts. Empty by default.
  #username: root

  # Password of hosts. Empty by default.
  #password: secret

  # By setting raw to true, all raw fields from the status metricset will be added to the event.
  #raw: false
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mysql-galera_status,galera_status>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mysql-status,status>>

include::mysql/galera_status.asciidoc[]

include::mysql/status.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Support MySQL 8, Percona and MariaDB in metricbeat (#10261) (#10298)
Test metricbeat module for MySQL with Percona and MariaDB too
Update mysql driver to support default authentication method in MySQL 8.

(cherry picked from commit 697a6b776b6f5dc88aead4ff747c2f3657e51792)

metricbeat/docs/modules/mysql.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-mysql]]
== MySQL module

This module periodically fetches metrics from https://www.mysql.com/[MySQL]
servers.

The default metricset is `status`.

[float]
=== Module-specific configuration notes

When configuring the `hosts` option, you must use a MySQL Data Source Name (DSN)
of the following format:

----
[username[:password]@][protocol[(address)]]/
----

You can also separately specify the username and password using the respective
configuration options. Usernames and passwords specified in the DSN take
precedence over those specified in the `username` and `password` config options.

----
- module: mysql
  metricsets: ["status"]
  hosts: ["tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"]
  username: root
  password: secret
----

[float]
=== Compatibility

The mysql MetricSets were tested with MySQL and Percona 5.7 and 8.0 and are expected
to work with all versions >= 5.7.0.
It is also tested with MariaDB 10.2 and 10.3.

[float]
=== Dashboard

The mysql module comes with a predefined dashboard. For example:

image::./images/metricbeat-mysql.png[]


[float]
=== Example configuration

The MySQL module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: mysql
  metricsets:
    - "status"
  #  - "galera_status"
  period: 10s

  # Host DSN should be defined as "user:pass@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"
  # The username and password can either be set in the DSN or using the username
  # and password config options. Those specified in the DSN take precedence.
  hosts: ["root:secret@tcp(127.0.0.1:3306)/"]

  # Username of hosts. Empty by default.
  #username: root

  # Password of hosts. Empty by default.
  #password: secret

  # By setting raw to true, all raw fields from the status metricset will be added to the event.
  #raw: false
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mysql-galera_status,galera_status>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-mysql-status,status>>

include::mysql/galera_status.asciidoc[]

include::mysql/status.asciidoc[]
