metricbeat/docs/modules/rabbitmq.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-rabbitmq]]
== RabbitMQ module

beta[]

The RabbitMQ module uses http://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html[HTTP API] created by the management plugin to collect metrics.

The default metricsets are `connection`, `node`, `queue` and `exchange`.

If `management.path_prefix` is set in RabbitMQ configuration, `management_path_prefix` has to be set to the same value in this module configuration.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The RabbitMQ module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: rabbitmq
  metricsets: ["node", "queue", "connection"]
  enabled: true
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:15672"]

  # Management path prefix, if `management.path_prefix` is set in RabbitMQ
  # configuration, it has to be set to the same value.
  #management_path_prefix: ""

  #username: guest
  #password: guest
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-connection,connection>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-exchange,exchange>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-node,node>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-queue,queue>>

include::rabbitmq/connection.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/exchange.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/node.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/queue.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc changes (#7696 #7883 #7888 #7889 #7903 #7937 #7939 #7948 #7949 #7950)  (#8188)
* Reset modulename attribute at the end of a file (#7888)

* Add safeguard related statements for max_backoff setting (#7889)

* Add docs about append_fields (#7903)

* Add docs about append_fields
* Remove experimental tag from setup.template.json.enabled description

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing (#7939)

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing, based on integration tests

* Added review suggestions

* Add missing config options to Logstash section of reference.yml (#7883)

Closes #3062

* Fix processor autodiscovery docs for Filebeat (#7937)

{ needs escaping as otherwise asciidoc will show an empty code block.

* Add document for beat export dashboard (#7696)

* Add document for beat export dashboard

Follow up from https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/7239

* move to command reference

* address review comments

* review comments applied

* apply review feedback

* Replace golang with Go (#7948)

I've been told that using "golang" instead of "Go" is considered a faux pas in some circles. :-)

I've replaced instances in the external docs, but I did not update the changelog, readmes, or code files.

* Minor fixes to attributes in module docs (#7949)

* Add recommendation to avoid harvesting symlinks when dealing with file rotation (#7950)

metricbeat/docs/modules/rabbitmq.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[[metricbeat-module-rabbitmq]]
== RabbitMQ module

beta[]

The RabbitMQ module uses http://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html[HTTP API] created by the management plugin to collect metrics.

The default metricsets are `connection`, `node`, `queue` and `exchange`.

If `management.path_prefix` is set in RabbitMQ configuration, `management_path_prefix` has to be set to the same value in this module configuration.

[float]
=== Compatibility

The rabbitmq module is tested with RabbitMQ 3.7.4, and it should be compatible
with any version supporting the management plugin. This plugin needs to be
enabled.


[float]
=== Example configuration

The RabbitMQ module supports the standard configuration options that are described
in <<configuration-metricbeat>>. Here is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: rabbitmq
  metricsets: ["node", "queue", "connection"]
  enabled: true
  period: 10s
  hosts: ["localhost:15672"]

  # Management path prefix, if `management.path_prefix` is set in RabbitMQ
  # configuration, it has to be set to the same value.
  #management_path_prefix: ""

  #username: guest
  #password: guest
----

This module supports TLS connection when using `ssl` config field, as described in <<configuration-ssl>>. It also supports the options described in <<module-http-config-options>>.

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-connection,connection>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-exchange,exchange>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-node,node>>

* <<metricbeat-metricset-rabbitmq-queue,queue>>

include::rabbitmq/connection.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/exchange.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/node.asciidoc[]

include::rabbitmq/queue.asciidoc[]
