x-pack/auditbeat/docs/modules/system.asciidoc, before:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[id="{beatname_lc}-module-system"]
[role="xpack"]

== System Module

experimental[]

The `system` module collects various security related information about
a system. All metricsets send both periodic state information (e.g. all currently
running processes) and real-time changes (e.g. when a new process starts
or stops).

The module is fully implemented for Linux. Some metricsets are also available
for macOS (Darwin) and Windows.

[float]
=== How it works

Each metricset sends two kinds of information: state and events.

State information is sent periodically and on startup (for some metricsets).
A state update will consist of one event per object that is currently
active on the system (e.g. a process). All events belonging to the same state
update will share the same UUID in `event.id`.

The frequency of state updates can be controlled for all metricsets using the
`state.period` configuration option. Overrides are available per metricset.
The default is `12h`.

Event information is sent as the events occur (e.g. a process starts or stops).
All metricsets are currently using a poll model to retrieve their data.
The frequency of these polls is controlled using the `period` configuration
parameter.

[float]
=== Configuration options

This module has some configuration options for controlling its behavior. The
following example shows all configuration options with their default values for
Linux.

NOTE: It is recommended to configure some metricsets separately. See below for a
sample suggested configuration.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: system
  metricsets:
    - host
    - process
    - socket
    - user
  period: 10s
  state.period: 12h
  user.detect_password_changes: true
----

*`period`*:: The frequency at which the metricsets check for changes. For most
metricsets - esp. `process` and `socket` - a shorter period is recommended.

*`state.period`*:: The frequency at which the metricsets send full state information.
This option can be overridden per metricset using `{metricset}.state.period`.

*`user.detect_password_changes`*:: If the `user` metricset is configured and
this option is set to `true`, Auditbeat will read password information in `/etc/passwd`
and `/etc/shadow` to detect password changes. A hash will be kept locally in
the `beat.db` file to detect changes between Auditbeat restarts. The `beat.db` file
should be readable only by the root user and be treated similar to the shadow file
itself.

[float]
=== Suggested configuration

Processes and sockets can be short-lived, so the chance of missing an update
increases if the polling interval is too large.

On the other hand, host and user information is unlikely to change frequently,
so a longer polling interval can be used.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: system
  metricsets:
    - host
    - user
  period: 1m
  user.detect_password_changes: true

- module: system
    - process
    - socket
  period: 1s
----


[float]
=== Example configuration

The System module supports the common configuration options that are
described under <<configuration-{beatname_lc},configuring {beatname_uc}>>. Here
is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
auditbeat.modules:
- module: system
  datasets:
    - host    # General host information, e.g. uptime, IPs
    - process # Started and stopped processes
    - socket  # Opened and closed sockets
    - user    # User information

  # How often datasets send state updates with the
  # current state of the system (e.g. all currently
  # running processes, all open sockets).
  state.period: 12h

  # Enabled by default. Auditbeat will read password fields in
  # /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow and store a hash locally to
  # detect any changes.
  user.detect_password_changes: true
----

[float]
=== Metricsets

The following metricsets are available:

* <<{beatname_lc}-metricset-system-host,host>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-metricset-system-process,process>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-metricset-system-socket,socket>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-metricset-system-user,user>>

include::system/host.asciidoc[]

include::system/process.asciidoc[]

include::system/socket.asciidoc[]

include::system/user.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

[Auditbeat] Cherry-pick #10101 to 6.6: Rename "metricset" to "dataset" in docs (#10106)
Cherry-pick of PR #10101 to 6.6 branch. Original message: 

Follow up to https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/10018.

Changes the Auditbeat system module documentation to say `dataset` rather than `metricset` in all places. No Go code changes.

x-pack/auditbeat/docs/modules/system.asciidoc, after:

////
This file is generated! See scripts/docs_collector.py
////

[id="{beatname_lc}-module-system"]
[role="xpack"]

== System Module

experimental[]

The `system` module collects various security related information about
a system. All datasets send both periodic state information (e.g. all currently
running processes) and real-time changes (e.g. when a new process starts
or stops).

The module is fully implemented for Linux. Some datasets are also available
for macOS (Darwin) and Windows.

[float]
=== How it works

Each dataset sends two kinds of information: state and events.

State information is sent periodically and (for some datasets) on startup.
A state update will consist of one event per object that is currently
active on the system (e.g. a process). All events belonging to the same state
update will share the same UUID in `event.id`.

The frequency of state updates can be controlled for all datasets using the
`state.period` configuration option. Overrides are available per dataset.
The default is `12h`.

Event information is sent as the events occur (e.g. a process starts or stops).
All datasets are currently using a poll model to retrieve their data.
The frequency of these polls is controlled by the `period` configuration
parameter.

[float]
=== Configuration options

This module has some configuration options for controlling its behavior. The
following example shows all configuration options with their default values for
Linux.

NOTE: It is recommended to configure some datasets separately. See below for a
sample suggested configuration.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: system
  datasets:
    - host
    - process
    - socket
    - user
  period: 10s
  state.period: 12h
  user.detect_password_changes: true
----

*`period`*:: The frequency at which the datasets check for changes. For most
datasets - esp. `process` and `socket` - a shorter period is recommended.

*`state.period`*:: The frequency at which the datasets send full state information.
This option can be overridden per dataset using `{dataset}.state.period`.

*`user.detect_password_changes`*:: If the `user` dataset is configured and
this option is set to `true`, Auditbeat will read password information in `/etc/passwd`
and `/etc/shadow` to detect password changes. A hash will be kept locally in
the `beat.db` file to detect changes between Auditbeat restarts. The `beat.db` file
should be readable only by the root user and be treated similar to the shadow file
itself.

[float]
=== Suggested configuration

Processes and sockets can be short-lived, so the chance of missing an update
increases if the polling interval is too large.

On the other hand, host and user information is unlikely to change frequently,
so a longer polling interval can be used.

[source,yaml]
----
- module: system
  datasets:
    - host
    - user
  period: 1m
  user.detect_password_changes: true

- module: system
  datasets:
    - process
    - socket
  period: 1s
----


[float]
=== Example configuration

The System module supports the common configuration options that are
described under <<configuration-{beatname_lc},configuring {beatname_uc}>>. Here
is an example configuration:

[source,yaml]
----
auditbeat.modules:
- module: system
  datasets:
    - host    # General host information, e.g. uptime, IPs
    - process # Started and stopped processes
    - socket  # Opened and closed sockets
    - user    # User information

  # How often datasets send state updates with the
  # current state of the system (e.g. all currently
  # running processes, all open sockets).
  state.period: 12h

  # Enabled by default. Auditbeat will read password fields in
  # /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow and store a hash locally to
  # detect any changes.
  user.detect_password_changes: true
----

[float]
=== Datasets

The following datasets are available:

* <<{beatname_lc}-dataset-system-host,host>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-dataset-system-process,process>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-dataset-system-socket,socket>>

* <<{beatname_lc}-dataset-system-user,user>>

include::system/host.asciidoc[]

include::system/process.asciidoc[]

include::system/socket.asciidoc[]

include::system/user.asciidoc[]
