filebeat/docs/inputs/input-log.asciidoc, before:

:type: log

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Log input

++++
<titleabbrev>Log</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `log` input to read lines from log files. 

To configure this input, specify a list of glob-based <<input-paths,`paths`>>
that must be crawled to locate and fetch the log lines. 

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - /var/log/messages
    - /var/log/*.log
----


You can apply additional
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options,configuration settings>> (such as `fields`,
`include_lines`, `exclude_lines`, `multiline`, and so on) to the lines harvested
from these files. The options that you specify are applied to all the files
harvested by this input.

To apply different configuration settings to different files, you need to define
multiple input sections:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: log <1>
  paths:
    - /var/log/system.log
    - /var/log/wifi.log
- type: log <2>
  paths:
    - "/var/log/apache2/*"
  fields:
    apache: true
  fields_under_root: true
----

<1> Harvests lines from two files:  `system.log` and
`wifi.log`.
<2> Harvests lines from every file in the `apache2` directory, and uses the
`fields` configuration option to add a field called `apache` to the output.


IMPORTANT: Make sure a file is not defined more than once across all inputs
because this can lead to unexpected behaviour.


[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options"]
==== Configuration options

The `log` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
[[input-paths]]
===== `paths`

A list of glob-based paths that will be crawled and fetched. All patterns
supported by https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Glob[Golang Glob] are also
supported here. For example, to fetch all files from a predefined level of
subdirectories, the following pattern can be used: `/var/log/*/*.log`. This
fetches all `.log` files from the subfolders of `/var/log`. It does not
fetch log files from the `/var/log` folder itself.
It is possible to recursively fetch all files in all subdirectories of a directory
using the optional <<recursive_glob,`recursive_glob`>> settings.

{beatname_uc} starts a harvester for each file that it finds under the specified
paths. You can specify one path per line. Each line begins with a dash (-).

[float]
[[recursive_glob]]
===== `recursive_glob.enabled`

Enable expanding `**` into recursive glob patterns. With this feature enabled,
the rightmost `**` in each path is expanded into a fixed number of glob
patterns. For example: `/foo/**` expands to `/foo`, `/foo/*`, `/foo/*/*`, and so
on. If enabled it expands a single `**` into a 8-level deep `*` pattern.

This feature is enabled by default. Set `recursive_glob.enabled` to false to
disable it.

include::../inputs/input-common-harvester-options.asciidoc[]

include::../inputs/input-common-file-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc changes (#7696 #7883 #7888 #7889 #7903 #7937 #7939 #7948 #7949 #7950)  (#8188)
* Reset modulename attribute at the end of a file (#7888)

* Add safeguard related statements for max_backoff setting (#7889)

* Add docs about append_fields (#7903)

* Add docs about append_fields
* Remove experimental tag from setup.template.json.enabled description

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing (#7939)

* Metricbeat: Add compatibility notes where missing, based on integration tests

* Added review suggestions

* Add missing config options to Logstash section of reference.yml (#7883)

Closes #3062

* Fix processor autodiscovery docs for Filebeat (#7937)

{ needs escaping as otherwise asciidoc will show an empty code block.

* Add document for beat export dashboard (#7696)

* Add document for beat export dashboard

Follow up from https://github.com/elastic/beats/pull/7239

* move to command reference

* address review comments

* review comments applied

* apply review feedback

* Replace golang with Go (#7948)

I've been told that using "golang" instead of "Go" is considered a faux pas in some circles. :-)

I've replaced instances in the external docs, but I did not update the changelog, readmes, or code files.

* Minor fixes to attributes in module docs (#7949)

* Add recommendation to avoid harvesting symlinks when dealing with file rotation (#7950)

filebeat/docs/inputs/input-log.asciidoc, after:

:type: log

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Log input

++++
<titleabbrev>Log</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `log` input to read lines from log files.

To configure this input, specify a list of glob-based <<input-paths,`paths`>>
that must be crawled to locate and fetch the log lines.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: log
  paths:
    - /var/log/messages
    - /var/log/*.log
----


You can apply additional
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options,configuration settings>> (such as `fields`,
`include_lines`, `exclude_lines`, `multiline`, and so on) to the lines harvested
from these files. The options that you specify are applied to all the files
harvested by this input.

To apply different configuration settings to different files, you need to define
multiple input sections:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: log <1>
  paths:
    - /var/log/system.log
    - /var/log/wifi.log
- type: log <2>
  paths:
    - "/var/log/apache2/*"
  fields:
    apache: true
  fields_under_root: true
----

<1> Harvests lines from two files:  `system.log` and
`wifi.log`.
<2> Harvests lines from every file in the `apache2` directory, and uses the
`fields` configuration option to add a field called `apache` to the output.


IMPORTANT: Make sure a file is not defined more than once across all inputs
because this can lead to unexpected behaviour.

NOTE: When dealing with file rotation, avoid harvesting symlinks. Instead
use the <<input-paths>> setting to point to the original file, and specify
a pattern that matches the file you want to harvest and all of its rotated
files.  

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-options"]
==== Configuration options

The `log` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[float]
[[input-paths]]
===== `paths`

A list of glob-based paths that will be crawled and fetched. All patterns
supported by https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Glob[Go Glob] are also
supported here. For example, to fetch all files from a predefined level of
subdirectories, the following pattern can be used: `/var/log/*/*.log`. This
fetches all `.log` files from the subfolders of `/var/log`. It does not
fetch log files from the `/var/log` folder itself.
It is possible to recursively fetch all files in all subdirectories of a directory
using the optional <<recursive_glob,`recursive_glob`>> settings.

{beatname_uc} starts a harvester for each file that it finds under the specified
paths. You can specify one path per line. Each line begins with a dash (-).

[float]
[[recursive_glob]]
===== `recursive_glob.enabled`

Enable expanding `**` into recursive glob patterns. With this feature enabled,
the rightmost `**` in each path is expanded into a fixed number of glob
patterns. For example: `/foo/**` expands to `/foo`, `/foo/*`, `/foo/*/*`, and so
on. If enabled it expands a single `**` into a 8-level deep `*` pattern.

This feature is enabled by default. Set `recursive_glob.enabled` to false to
disable it.

include::../inputs/input-common-harvester-options.asciidoc[]

include::../inputs/input-common-file-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
