filebeat/docs/inputs/input-docker.asciidoc, before:

:type: docker

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Docker input

++++
<titleabbrev>Docker</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `docker` input to read logs from Docker containers.

This input searches for container logs under its path, and parse them into
common message lines, extracting timestamps too. Everything happens before line
filtering, multiline, and JSON decoding, so this input can be used in
combination with those settings.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: docker
  containers.ids: <1>
    - '8b6fe7dc9e067b58476dc57d6986dd96d7100430c5de3b109a99cd56ac655347'
----

<1> `containers.ids` is required. All other settings are optional.

==== Configuration options

The `docker` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[[config-container-ids]]
===== `containers.ids`

The list of Docker container IDs to read logs from. Specify
`containers.ids: '*'` to read from all containers.

===== `containers.path`

The base path where Docker logs are located. The default
is `/var/lib/docker/containers`.

===== `containers.stream`

Reads from the specified streams only: `all`, `stdout` or `stderr`. The default
is `all`.

===== `combine_partial`

Enable partial messages joining. Docker `json-file` driver splits log lines larger than 16k bytes,
end of line (`\n`) is present for common lines in the resulting file, while it's not the for the lines
that have been split. `combine_partial` joins them back together when enabled. It is enabled by default.

===== `cri.parse_flags`

Enable CRI flags parsing from the log file. CRI uses flags to signal a partial line, enabling this will
ensure partial lines are rejoined. It is disabled by default.


The following input configures {beatname_uc} to read the `stdout` stream from
all containers under the default Docker containers path:

[source,yaml]
----
- type: docker
  combine_partial: true
  containers:
    path: "/var/lib/docker/containers"
    stream: "stdout"
    ids:
      - "*"
----

include::../inputs/input-common-harvester-options.asciidoc[]

include::../inputs/input-common-file-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:

Commit message:

Cherry-pick #8424 to 6.x: Reduce casting between []byte and string in CRI log processing (#8718)
* Reduce casting between []byte and string in CRI log processing (#8424)

* Reduce casting between []byte and string in CRI log processing

* Refactor CRI and json-file detection

* Improve handling of new lines in linux/windows CRI logs.

* Move new line removal to OS specific functions.
* Add option to force CRI log parsing, otherwise autodetect log type.

* Fixed unit tests and new line removal

* Fixed new line removal
* Added unit tests to check Forced CRI flag

(cherry picked from commit 231860250e164a61d8744b5c571f807e4af0b68b)

* Add CHANGELOG and docs for CRI force flag (#8699)

(cherry picked from commit 9f4b77be0fc3cf097683ad5e39ac0ad7201066fc)

* Fix conflicting paths

* Fix build for all OS after #8424 (#8717)

* Fix build for all OS after #8424

* Apply PR comments

filebeat/docs/inputs/input-docker.asciidoc, after:

:type: docker

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}"]
=== Docker input

++++
<titleabbrev>Docker</titleabbrev>
++++

Use the `docker` input to read logs from Docker containers.

This input searches for container logs under its path, and parse them into
common message lines, extracting timestamps too. Everything happens before line
filtering, multiline, and JSON decoding, so this input can be used in
combination with those settings.

Example configuration:

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.inputs:
- type: docker
  containers.ids: <1>
    - '8b6fe7dc9e067b58476dc57d6986dd96d7100430c5de3b109a99cd56ac655347'
----

<1> `containers.ids` is required. All other settings are optional.

==== Configuration options

The `docker` input supports the following configuration options plus the
<<{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options>> described later.

[[config-container-ids]]
===== `containers.ids`

The list of Docker container IDs to read logs from. Specify
`containers.ids: '*'` to read from all containers.

===== `containers.path`

The base path where Docker logs are located. The default
is `/var/lib/docker/containers`.

===== `containers.stream`

Reads from the specified streams only: `all`, `stdout` or `stderr`. The default
is `all`.

===== `combine_partial`

Enable partial messages joining. Docker `json-file` driver splits log lines larger than 16k bytes,
end of line (`\n`) is present for common lines in the resulting file, while it's not the for the lines
that have been split. `combine_partial` joins them back together when enabled. It is enabled by default.

===== `cri.parse_flags`

Enable CRI flags parsing from the log file. CRI uses flags to signal a partial line, enabling this will
ensure partial lines are rejoined. It is disabled by default.


The following input configures {beatname_uc} to read the `stdout` stream from
all containers under the default Docker containers path:

[source,yaml]
----
- type: docker
  combine_partial: true
  containers:
    path: "/var/lib/docker/containers"
    stream: "stdout"
    ids:
      - "*"
----

===== `cri.force`

Force CRI format parsing. This disables automatic format detection, use it when you know format is CRI
to gain some performance. This is false by default.

include::../inputs/input-common-harvester-options.asciidoc[]

include::../inputs/input-common-file-options.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-input-{type}-common-options"]
include::../inputs/input-common-options.asciidoc[]

:type!:
