x-pack/functionbeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, before:

[id="{beatname_lc}-getting-started"]
[role="xpack"]
== Getting Started With {beatname_uc}

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<{beatname_lc}-installation>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-template>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-deploying>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>

[id="{beatname_lc}-installation"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 1: Download the {beatname_uc} package

The {beatname_uc} package contains the command line tools, configuration file,
and binary code required to run {beatname_uc} in your serverless environment. 

To download and extract the package, use the commands that work with your
system.

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/x-pack/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/x-pack/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the {beatname_uc} Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file. 

endif::[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-configuration"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 2: Configure {beatname_uc}

Before deploying {beatname_uc} to your serverless environment, you need to
specify details about the functions that you want to deploy, including the
function name, type, and triggers that will cause the function to execute.
You also need to specify connection details for your {es} cluster. 

You specify settings in the  +{beatname_lc}.yml+ configuration file. This file
is located in the archive that you extracted earlier.

TIP: See the
{libbeat}/config-file-format.html[Config File Format] section of the
_Beats Platform Reference_ for more about the structure of the config file.

The following example configures a function called `cloudwatch` that collects
events from CloudWatch Logs and forwards the events to {es}.

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.deploy_bucket: "functionbeat-deploy"
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.functions:
  - name: cloudwatch
    enabled: true
    type: cloudwatch_logs
    description: "lambda function for cloudwatch logs"
    triggers:
      - log_group_name: /aws/lambda/my-lambda-function
output.elasticsearch:
  cloud.id: "MyESDeployment:SomeLongString=="
  cloud.auth: "elastic:SomeLongString"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure {beatname_uc}:

. Specify a unique name for the S3 bucket to which the functions will be
uploaded. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.deploy_bucket: "functionbeat-deploy"
----

. Define the functions that want to deploy. For each function, you must specify:
+
[horizontal]
`name`:: A unique name for the Lambda function.  
`type`:: The type of service to monitor. For this release, the supported types
are:
* `cloudwatch_logs` to collect data from CloudWatch logs
* `sqs` to collect messages from Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)
`triggers`:: The triggers that will cause the function to execute. If `type`
is `cloudwatch_logs` logs, specify a list of log groups. If `type` is `sqs`,
specify a list of Amazon Resource Names (ARNs). 
+
When a message is sent to the specified log group or queue, the Lambda function
executes and sends message events to the output configured for {beatname_uc}.
+
The following example configures a function called `sqs` that collects data
from Amazon SQS:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
- name: sqs
  enabled: true
  type: sqs
  triggers:
    - event_source_arn: arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:123456789012:myevents
----

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-template"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

:allplatforms:
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-deploying"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 4: Deploy {beatname_uc} code to your serverless environment

Before deploying functions to your serverless environment, make sure your user
has the credentials required by your cloud service provider. For example, if you
are deploying an AWS Lambda function, you can set environment variables that
contain your credentials:

*linux and mac*:

[source, shell]
----
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPUSER
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=EXAMPLE567890devgHIJKMLOPNQRSTUVZ1234KEY
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
----

*win*:

[source, shell]
----
set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPUSER
set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=EXAMPLE567890devgHIJKMLOPNQRSTUVZ1234KEY
set AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
----

After setting credentials, run the `deploy` command to deploy the function.
The following command deploys a function called `cloudwatch`: 

*linux and mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} -v -e -d "*" deploy cloudwatch
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
.{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe -v -e -d "*" deploy cloudwatch
----------------------------------------------------------------------

{beatname_uc} is now deployed in your serverless environment and ready to send
log events to the configured output.

TIP: If you change the configuration after deploying the function, use
the <<update-command,`update` command>> to update your deployment.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 5: View your data in Kibana

There are currently no example dashboards available for {beatname_uc}.

To learn how to view and explore your data, see the
_{kibana-ref}/index.html[{kib} User Guide]_.

Commit message:

Add docs FAQ topic about deploying to the wrong region (#9085) (#9185)

x-pack/functionbeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, after:

[id="{beatname_lc}-getting-started"]
[role="xpack"]
== Getting Started With {beatname_uc}

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<{beatname_lc}-installation>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-template>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-deploying>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>

[id="{beatname_lc}-installation"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 1: Download the {beatname_uc} package

The {beatname_uc} package contains the command line tools, configuration file,
and binary code required to run {beatname_uc} in your serverless environment. 

To download and extract the package, use the commands that work with your
system.

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/x-pack/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/x-pack/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the {beatname_uc} Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file. 

endif::[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-configuration"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 2: Configure {beatname_uc}

Before deploying {beatname_uc} to your serverless environment, you need to
specify details about the functions that you want to deploy, including the
function name, type, and triggers that will cause the function to execute.
You also need to specify connection details for your {es} cluster. 

You specify settings in the  +{beatname_lc}.yml+ configuration file. This file
is located in the archive that you extracted earlier.

TIP: See the
{libbeat}/config-file-format.html[Config File Format] section of the
_Beats Platform Reference_ for more about the structure of the config file.

The following example configures a function called `cloudwatch` that collects
events from CloudWatch Logs and forwards the events to {es}.

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.deploy_bucket: "functionbeat-deploy"
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.functions:
  - name: cloudwatch
    enabled: true
    type: cloudwatch_logs
    description: "lambda function for cloudwatch logs"
    triggers:
      - log_group_name: /aws/lambda/my-lambda-function
output.elasticsearch:
  cloud.id: "MyESDeployment:SomeLongString=="
  cloud.auth: "elastic:SomeLongString"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure {beatname_uc}:

. Specify a unique name for the S3 bucket to which the functions will be
uploaded. For example:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc}.provider.aws.deploy_bucket: "functionbeat-deploy"
----

. Define the functions that want to deploy. For each function, you must specify:
+
[horizontal]
`name`:: A unique name for the Lambda function.  
`type`:: The type of service to monitor. For this release, the supported types
are:
* `cloudwatch_logs` to collect data from CloudWatch logs
* `sqs` to collect messages from Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)
`triggers`:: The triggers that will cause the function to execute. If `type`
is `cloudwatch_logs` logs, specify a list of log groups. If `type` is `sqs`,
specify a list of Amazon Resource Names (ARNs). 
+
When a message is sent to the specified log group or queue, the Lambda function
executes and sends message events to the output configured for {beatname_uc}.
+
The following example configures a function called `sqs` that collects data
from Amazon SQS:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
- name: sqs
  enabled: true
  type: sqs
  triggers:
    - event_source_arn: arn:aws:sqs:us-east-1:123456789012:myevents
----

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-template"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

:allplatforms:
include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-deploying"]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 4: Deploy {beatname_uc} code to your serverless environment

Before deploying functions to your serverless environment, make sure your user
has the credentials required by your cloud service provider. For example, if you
are deploying an AWS Lambda function, you can set environment variables that
contain your credentials:

*linux and mac*:

[source, shell]
----
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPUSER
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=EXAMPLE567890devgHIJKMLOPNQRSTUVZ1234KEY
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
----

*win*:

[source, shell]
----
set AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPUSER
set AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=EXAMPLE567890devgHIJKMLOPNQRSTUVZ1234KEY
set AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=us-east-1
----

Set `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION` to the region where your services are running.

After setting credentials, run the `deploy` command to deploy the function.
The following command deploys a function called `cloudwatch`: 

*linux and mac:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
./{beatname_lc} -v -e -d "*" deploy cloudwatch
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
.{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe -v -e -d "*" deploy cloudwatch
----------------------------------------------------------------------

{beatname_uc} is now deployed in your serverless environment and ready to send
log events to the configured output.

TIP: If you change the configuration after deploying the function, use
the <<update-command,`update` command>> to update your deployment.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
[role="xpack"]
=== Step 5: View your data in Kibana

There are currently no example dashboards available for {beatname_uc}.

To learn how to view and explore your data, see the
_{kibana-ref}/index.html[{kib} User Guide]_.
