libbeat/docs/monitoring/monitoring-beats.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/monitoring/configuring.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[role="xpack"]
[[monitoring]]
= Monitoring {beatname_uc}

[partintro]
--

NOTE: {monitoring} for {beatname_uc} requires {es} 6.2 or later.

{monitoring} enables you to easily monitor {beatname_uc} from {kib}. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/xpack-monitoring.html[Monitoring the Elastic Stack] and
{kibana-ref}/beats-page.html[Beats Monitoring Metrics].

To configure {beatname_uc} to collect and send monitoring metrics:

. Create a user that has appropriate authority to send system-level monitoring
data to {es}. For example, you can use the built-in `beats_system` user or
assign the built-in `beats_system` role to another user. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/setting-up-authentication.html[Setting Up User Authentication] and
{xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[Built-in Roles].

. Add the `xpack.monitoring` settings in the {beatname_uc} configuration file. If you
configured {es} output, specify the following minimal configuration:
+
--
[source, yml]
--------------------
xpack.monitoring.enabled: true
--------------------

If you configured a different output, such as {ls}, you must specify additional
configuration options. For example:

[source, yml]
--------------------
xpack.monitoring:
  enabled: true
  elasticsearch:
    hosts: ["https://example.com:9200", "https://example2.com:9200"]
    username: beats_system
    password: beatspassword
--------------------

NOTE: Currently you must send monitoring data to the same cluster as all other events.
If you configured {es} output, do not specify additional hosts in the monitoring
configuration.

--

. {kibana-ref}/monitoring-xpack-kibana.html[Configure monitoring in {kib}].

. To verify your monitoring configuration, point your web browser at your {kib}
host, and select Monitoring from the side navigation. Metrics reported from
{beatname_uc} should be visible in the Beats section. When {security} is enabled,
to view the monitoring dashboards you must log in to {kib} as a user who has the
`kibana_user` and `monitoring_user` roles.
--

include::shared-monitor-config.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

parameterize beat monitoring docs (#8297) (#8306)
(cherry picked from commit 929f20d9a639cd896f3b09bc157b1a9baa7a2665)

libbeat/docs/monitoring/monitoring-beats.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/monitoring/configuring.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[role="xpack"]
[[monitoring]]
= Monitoring {beatname_uc}

[partintro]
--

NOTE: {monitoring} for {beatname_uc} requires {es} {beat_monitoring_version} or later.

{monitoring} enables you to easily monitor {beatname_uc} from {kib}. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/xpack-monitoring.html[Monitoring the Elastic Stack] and
{kibana-ref}/beats-page.html[Beats Monitoring Metrics].

To configure {beatname_uc} to collect and send monitoring metrics:

. Create a user that has appropriate authority to send system-level monitoring
data to {es}. For example, you can use the built-in +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user or
assign the built-in +{beat_monitoring_user}+ role to another user. For more
information, see
{xpack-ref}/setting-up-authentication.html[Setting Up User Authentication] and
{xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[Built-in Roles].

. Add the `xpack.monitoring` settings in the {beatname_uc} configuration file. If you
configured {es} output, specify the following minimal configuration:
+
--
[source, yml]
--------------------
xpack.monitoring.enabled: true
--------------------

If you configured a different output, such as {ls}, you must specify additional
configuration options. For example:

["source","yml",subs="attributes"]
--------------------
xpack.monitoring:
  enabled: true
  elasticsearch:
    hosts: ["https://example.com:9200", "https://example2.com:9200"]
    username: {beat_monitoring_user}
    password: somepassword
--------------------

NOTE: Currently you must send monitoring data to the same cluster as all other events.
If you configured {es} output, do not specify additional hosts in the monitoring
configuration.

--

. {kibana-ref}/monitoring-xpack-kibana.html[Configure monitoring in {kib}].

. To verify your monitoring configuration, point your web browser at your {kib}
host, and select Monitoring from the side navigation. Metrics reported from
{beatname_uc} should be visible in the Beats section. When {security} is enabled,
to view the monitoring dashboards you must log in to {kib} as a user who has the
`kibana_user` and `monitoring_user` roles.
--

include::shared-monitor-config.asciidoc[]
