libbeat/docs/monitoring/shared-monitor-config.asciidoc, before:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/monitoring/configuring.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[configuration-monitor]]
== Monitoring configuration options
++++
<titleabbrev>Configuration options</titleabbrev>
++++

You can specify the following options in the `xpack.monitoring` section of the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
=== `enabled`

The `enabled` config is a boolean setting to enable or disable {monitoring}.
If set to `true`, monitoring is enabled.

The default value is `false`.

[float]
=== `elasticsearch`

The {es} instances that you want to ship your {beatname_uc} metrics to. This
configuration option contains the following fields:

[float]
==== `bulk_max_size`

The maximum number of metrics to bulk in a single {es} bulk API index request.
The default is `50`. For more information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `compression_level`

The gzip compression level. Setting this value to `0` disables compression. The
compression level must be in the range of `1` (best speed) to `9` (best
compression). The default value is `0`. Increasing the compression level
reduces the network usage but increases the CPU usage.

[float]
==== `headers`

Custom HTTP headers to add to each request. For more information, see
<<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `hosts`

The list of {es} nodes to connect to. Monitoring metrics are distributed to
these nodes in round robin order. For more information, see
<<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `max_retries`

The number of times to retry sending the monitoring metrics after a failure.
After the specified number of retries, the metrics are typically dropped. The
default value is `3`. For more information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `parameters`

Dictionary of HTTP parameters to pass within the url with index operations.

[float]
==== `password`

The password that {beatname_uc} uses to authenticate with the {es} instances for
shipping monitoring data.

[float]
==== `period`

The time interval (in seconds) when metrics are sent to the {es} cluster. A new
snapshot of {beatname_uc} metrics is generated and scheduled for publishing each
period. The default value is 60 * time.Second.

[float]
==== `protocol`

The name of the protocol to use when connecting to the {es} cluster. The options
are: `http` or `https`. The default is `http`. If you specify a URL for `hosts`,
however, the value of protocol is overridden by the scheme you specify in the URL.

[float]
==== `proxy_url`

The URL of the proxy to use when connecting to the {es} cluster. For more
information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `timeout`

The HTTP request timeout in seconds for the {es} request. The default is `90`.

[float]
==== `ssl`

Configuration options for Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL) parameters like the certificate authority (CA) to use for HTTPS-based
connections. If the `ssl` section is missing, the host CAs are used for
HTTPS connections to {es}. For more information, see <<configuration-ssl>>.

[float]
==== `username`

The user ID that {beatname_uc} uses to authenticate with the {es} instances for
shipping monitoring data.

Commit message:

Improve monitoring reporter (#8090) (#8143)
Add backoff and failover support to the Elasticsearch monitoring
reporter.
The monitoring reporter runs in 2 phases. First phase it checks for
monitoring being enabled in Elasticsearch. The check runs every 30s.
If multiple hosts are configured, one host is selected by random.
Once phase 1 succeeds, phase 2 (collection phase) is started.

Before this change, phase 2 was configured to use load-balancing without
timeout if multiple hosts are configured. With events being dropped on
error and only one document being generated every 10s, this was ok in
most cases. Still, if one output is blocked, waiting for a long timeout
failover to another host can happen, even if no error occured yet.
If the failover host has errors, it might end up in a tight
reconnect-loop without any backoff behavior.
With recent changes to 6.4 beats creates a many more documents, which
was not taken into account in original design. Due to this misbehaving
monitoring outputs are much more likely:
=> Problems with reporter
1. Failover was not handled correctly
2. Creating more then one event and potentially spurious errors raise the need for backoff

This changes configures the clients to failover mode only. Whenever the
connection to one host fails, another host is selected by random.
On failure the reporters output will backoff exponentially. If the second client
(after failover) also fails, then the backoff waiting times are doubled.
And so on.

(cherry picked from commit e3d856b45b6618a062c0c3a10147cea8e26dc882)

libbeat/docs/monitoring/shared-monitor-config.asciidoc, after:

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
//// This content is shared by all Elastic Beats. Make sure you keep the
//// descriptions here generic enough to work for all Beats that include
//// this file. When using cross references, make sure that the cross
//// references resolve correctly for any files that include this one.
//// Use the appropriate variables defined in the index.asciidoc file to
//// resolve Beat names: beatname_uc and beatname_lc.
//// Use the following include to pull this content into a doc file:
//// include::../../libbeat/docs/monitoring/configuring.asciidoc[]
//// Make sure this content appears below a level 2 heading.
//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

[[configuration-monitor]]
== Monitoring configuration options
++++
<titleabbrev>Configuration options</titleabbrev>
++++

You can specify the following options in the `xpack.monitoring` section of the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ config file:

[float]
=== `enabled`

The `enabled` config is a boolean setting to enable or disable {monitoring}.
If set to `true`, monitoring is enabled.

The default value is `false`.

[float]
=== `elasticsearch`

The {es} instances that you want to ship your {beatname_uc} metrics to. This
configuration option contains the following fields:

[float]
==== `bulk_max_size`

The maximum number of metrics to bulk in a single {es} bulk API index request.
The default is `50`. For more information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `backoff.init`

The number of seconds to wait before trying to reconnect to Elasticsearch after
a network error. After waiting `backoff.init` seconds, {beatname_uc} tries to
reconnect. If the attempt fails, the backoff timer is increased exponentially up
to `backoff.max`. After a successful connection, the backoff timer is reset. The
default is 1s.

[float]
===== `backoff.max`

The maximum number of seconds to wait before attempting to connect to
Elasticsearch after a network error. The default is 60s.

[float]
==== `compression_level`

The gzip compression level. Setting this value to `0` disables compression. The
compression level must be in the range of `1` (best speed) to `9` (best
compression). The default value is `0`. Increasing the compression level
reduces the network usage but increases the CPU usage.

[float]
==== `headers`

Custom HTTP headers to add to each request. For more information, see
<<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `hosts`

The list of {es} nodes to connect to. Monitoring metrics are distributed to
these nodes in round robin order. For more information, see
<<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `max_retries`

The number of times to retry sending the monitoring metrics after a failure.
After the specified number of retries, the metrics are typically dropped. The
default value is `3`. For more information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `parameters`

Dictionary of HTTP parameters to pass within the url with index operations.

[float]
==== `password`

The password that {beatname_uc} uses to authenticate with the {es} instances for
shipping monitoring data.

[float]
==== `metrics.period`

The time interval (in seconds) when metrics are sent to the {es} cluster. A new
snapshot of {beatname_uc} metrics is generated and scheduled for publishing each
period. The default value is 10 * time.Second.

[float]
==== `state.period`

The time interval (in seconds) when state information are sent to the {es} cluster. A new
snapshot of {beatname_uc} state is generated and scheduled for publishing each
period. The default value is 60 * time.Second.

[float]
==== `protocol`

The name of the protocol to use when connecting to the {es} cluster. The options
are: `http` or `https`. The default is `http`. If you specify a URL for `hosts`,
however, the value of protocol is overridden by the scheme you specify in the URL.

[float]
==== `proxy_url`

The URL of the proxy to use when connecting to the {es} cluster. For more
information, see <<elasticsearch-output>>.

[float]
==== `timeout`

The HTTP request timeout in seconds for the {es} request. The default is `90`.

[float]
==== `ssl`

Configuration options for Transport Layer Security (TLS) or Secure Sockets Layer
(SSL) parameters like the certificate authority (CA) to use for HTTPS-based
connections. If the `ssl` section is missing, the host CAs are used for
HTTPS connections to {es}. For more information, see <<configuration-ssl>>.

[float]
==== `username`

The user ID that {beatname_uc} uses to authenticate with the {es} instances for
shipping monitoring data.
