journalbeat/docs/filtering.asciidoc, before:

[[filtering-and-enhancing-data]]
== Filter and enhance the exported data

IMPORTANT: This documentation is placeholder content. It has not yet been reviewed.

Your use case might require only a subset of the data exported by {beatname_uc},
or you might need to enhance the exported data (for example, by adding
metadata). {beatname_uc} provides a couple of options for filtering and
enhancing exported data.

You can configure each input to include or exclude specific lines or files. This
allows you to specify different filtering criteria for each input. To do this,
you use the `include_lines`, `exclude_lines`, and `exclude_files` options under
the +{beatname_lc}.inputs+ section of the config file (see
<<configuration-{beatname_lc}-options>>). The disadvantage of this approach is
that you need to implement a configuration option for each filtering criteria
that you need.

Another approach (the one described here) is to define processors to configure
global processing across all data exported by {beatname_uc}.


[float]
[[using-processors]]
=== Processors

include::../../libbeat/docs/processors.asciidoc[]

[float]
[[specific-example]]
==== XYZ example

ADD EXAMPLES SPECIFIC TO THE BEAT, OR DELETE THIS SECTION

// You must set the processor-scope attribute to resolve the attribute reference
// defined in processors-using.asciidoc. The attribute is used to indicate where
// processors are valid. If processors are valid in more than two locations
// (root and :processor-scope:), you need to add a conditionally coded section
// to processors-using.asciidoc.

:processor-scope: input
include::../../libbeat/docs/processors-using.asciidoc[]
:processor-scope!:

Commit message:

Backport to 6.5: Docs for new beats (#8811, #8864, #8744)  (#9025)
* Add conditions for each platform (#8811)

* Add conditions for each platform

* Add conditions to directory layout topic

* Combine conditions for deb and rpm

* Update Journalbeat docs (#8864)

* More updates for journalbeat

* Remove unwanted comments and extra files

* Add changes from review

* Changes from second round of reviews

* Remove backoff options

* Remove questions for reviewers

* Change file to journal

* Change default  max_backoff in docs to 20s

* More fixes from review

* Revert "Remove backoff options"

This reverts commit d57e4b32f125e2b10794930678de7077f1f31981.

* Add global options back

* Initialize docs for functionbeat (#8744)

* Initialize docs

* Run make update

* In progress fixes from review

* More changes from the review and testing

* Add fixes from the review

* Fixed download path

* Remove unused dashboard image placeholders

* Add missing options and remove boiler plate text

* Run make update

* Remove broken link

journalbeat/docs/filtering.asciidoc, after:

[[filtering-and-enhancing-data]]
== Filter and enhance the exported data

Your use case might require only a subset of the data exported by {beatname_uc},
or you might need to enhance the exported data (for example, by adding
metadata). {beatname_uc} provides a couple of options for filtering and
enhancing exported data.

You can configure {beatname_uc} to include events that match specific filtering
criteria. To do this, use the <<{beatname_lc}-include-matches,`include_matches`>>
option. The advantage of this approach is that you can reduce the number of
fields that {beatname_uc} needs to process.

Another approach (the one described here) is to define processors to configure
global processing across all data exported by {beatname_uc}.


[float]
[[using-processors]]
=== Processors

include::../../libbeat/docs/processors.asciidoc[]

// You must set the processor-scope attribute to resolve the attribute reference
// defined in processors-using.asciidoc. The attribute is used to indicate where
// processors are valid. If processors are valid in more than two locations
// (root and :processor-scope:), you need to add a conditionally coded section
// to processors-using.asciidoc.

:processor-scope: input
include::../../libbeat/docs/processors-using.asciidoc[]
:processor-scope!:
