filebeat/docs/autodiscover-docker-config.asciidoc, before:

Filebeat supports templates for inputs and modules.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      templates:
        - condition:
            contains:
              docker.container.image: redis
          config:
            - type: docker
              containers.ids:
                - "${data.docker.container.id}"
              exclude_lines: ["^\\s+[\\-`('.|_]"]  # drop asciiart lines
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This configuration launches a `docker` logs input for all containers running an image with `redis` in the name.

If you are using modules, you can override the default input and use the docker input instead.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      templates:
        - condition:
            contains:
              docker.container.image: redis
          config:
            - module: redis
              log:
                input:
                  type: docker
                  containers.ids:
                    - "${data.docker.container.id}"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Commit message:

Document autodiscover dedot option (#10938) (#11143)
* Document autodiscover dedot option

(cherry picked from commit e7ffd08252455927fd7d01fe608e4022e387590c)

filebeat/docs/autodiscover-docker-config.asciidoc, after:

Filebeat supports templates for inputs and modules.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      labels.dedot: true
      templates:
        - condition:
            contains:
              docker.container.image: redis
          config:
            - type: docker
              containers.ids:
                - "${data.docker.container.id}"
              exclude_lines: ["^\\s+[\\-`('.|_]"]  # drop asciiart lines
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

This configuration launches a `docker` logs input for all containers running an image with `redis` in the name.
`labels.dedot` defaults to be `true` for docker autodiscover, which means dots in docker labels are replaced with '_' by default.

If you are using modules, you can override the default input and use the docker input instead.

["source","yaml",subs="attributes"]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.autodiscover:
  providers:
    - type: docker
      labels.dedot: true
      templates:
        - condition:
            contains:
              docker.container.image: redis
          config:
            - module: redis
              log:
                input:
                  type: docker
                  containers.ids:
                    - "${data.docker.container.id}"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
