filebeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, before:

[[filebeat-getting-started]]
== Getting Started With Filebeat

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<filebeat-installation>>
* <<filebeat-configuration>>
* <<config-filebeat-logstash>>
* <<filebeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<filebeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<filebeat-modules-quickstart>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[[filebeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Filebeat

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i filebeat-{version}-amd64.deb
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi filebeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf filebeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf filebeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source", "shell", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
docker pull {dockerimage}
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the Filebeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the `filebeat-<version>-windows` directory to `Filebeat`.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Filebeat as a
Windows service:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Filebeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Filebeat> .\install-service-filebeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For example: `PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-filebeat.ps1`.

endif::[]

[[filebeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Filebeat

TIP: <<filebeat-modules-overview,Filebeat modules>> provide the fastest getting
started experience for common log formats. If you want use Filebeat modules,
skip this section, including the remaining getting started steps, and go
directly to <<filebeat-modules-quickstart>>.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

Here is a sample of the `filebeat` section of the `filebeat.yml` file. Filebeat uses predefined
default values for most configuration options.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/*.log
    #- c:\programdata\elasticsearch\logs\*
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure Filebeat:

. Define the path (or paths) to your log files.
+
For the most basic Filebeat configuration, you can define a single input with a single path. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/*.log
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+
The input in this example harvests all files in the path `/var/log/*.log`, which means
that Filebeat will harvest all files in the directory `/var/log/` that end with `.log`. All patterns supported
by https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Glob[Go Glob] are also supported here.
+
To fetch all files from a predefined level of subdirectories, the following pattern can be used:
`/var/log/*/*.log`. This fetches all `.log` files from the subfolders of `/var/log`. It does not
fetch log files from the `/var/log` folder itself. Currently it is not possible to recursively
fetch all files in all subdirectories of a directory.

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[[config-filebeat-logstash]]
=== Step 3: Configure Filebeat to use Logstash

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-logstash-config.asciidoc[]

[[filebeat-template]]
=== Step 4: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 5: Set up the Kibana dashboards

include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[[filebeat-starting]]
=== Step 6: Start Filebeat

Start Filebeat by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Filebeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Filebeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

["source", "shell", subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
docker run {dockerimage}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*mac and linux:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root filebeat.yml <1>
sudo ./filebeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Filebeat as root, so you need to change ownership
of the configuration file, or run Filebeat with `--strict.perms=false`
specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Filebeat> Start-Service filebeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------


By default, Windows log files are stored in `C:\ProgramData\filebeat\Logs`.

Filebeat is now ready to send log files to your defined output.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 7: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to explore Filebeat data in Kibana, we've created
example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards earlier when you
ran the `setup` command.

include::../../libbeat/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

These dashboards are designed to work out-of-the box when you use
<<filebeat-modules-overview,Filebeat modules>>. However, you can also use them
as examples and {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs
even if you aren't using Filebeat modules.

To populate the example dashboards with data, you need to either
<<configuring-ingest-node,define ingest node pipelines>> or use Logstash to
parse the data into the fields expected by the dashboards. If you are using
Logstash, see the
{logstashdoc}/logstash-config-for-filebeat-modules.html[configuration examples]
in the Logstash documentation for help parsing the log formats supported
by the dashboards.

Here is an example of the Filebeat system dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/kibana-system.png[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.5: Multiple doc PRs (#9304, #9370, #9391) (#9441)
* [Docs] Updates for central management (#9304)

* [Docs] Updates for central management

* Modify wording about dashboard loading

* Run make update

* [Docs] Add Journalbeat and Functionbeat to overview docs (#9370)

* Beats Docker container documentation (#9391)

* added run commands

* added sample config file

* added config files

* added setup

* added docker config

* link to docker instructions from install page

* linked to kubernetes docs from getting started/install

* enable hints based autodiscover

* put docker files in standard root dir of beats

* added hints discovery to docker yml  file

* added details around elasticsearch output

* fixed volume syntax

* grammar

* added setup and run commands, configured sample yml files for hints based autodiscover, and added args (like Linux Capabilities) required.

* moved example docker YAML files to deploy/docker

* removed superfluous comment

* state that the configs are examples

* Remove conditions and add minor edits

filebeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, after:

[[filebeat-getting-started]]
== Getting Started With Filebeat

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<filebeat-installation>>
* <<filebeat-configuration>>
* <<config-filebeat-logstash>>
* <<filebeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<filebeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<filebeat-modules-quickstart>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[[filebeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Filebeat

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i filebeat-{version}-amd64.deb
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi filebeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf filebeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat/filebeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf filebeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[kubernetes]]
*kubernetes:*

See <<running-on-kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>> for deploying with Kubernetes.

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the Filebeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/filebeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the `filebeat-<version>-windows` directory to `Filebeat`.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Filebeat as a
Windows service:
+
[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Filebeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Filebeat> .\install-service-filebeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For example: `PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-filebeat.ps1`.

endif::[]

[[filebeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Filebeat

TIP: <<filebeat-modules-overview,Filebeat modules>> provide the fastest getting
started experience for common log formats. If you want use Filebeat modules,
skip this section, including the remaining getting started steps, and go
directly to <<filebeat-modules-quickstart>>.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

Here is a sample of the `filebeat` section of the `filebeat.yml` file. Filebeat uses predefined
default values for most configuration options.

[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/*.log
    #- c:\programdata\elasticsearch\logs\*
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure Filebeat:

. Define the path (or paths) to your log files.
+
For the most basic Filebeat configuration, you can define a single input with a single path. For example:
+
[source,yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
filebeat.inputs:
- type: log
  enabled: true
  paths:
    - /var/log/*.log
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
+
The input in this example harvests all files in the path `/var/log/*.log`, which means
that Filebeat will harvest all files in the directory `/var/log/` that end with `.log`. All patterns supported
by https://golang.org/pkg/path/filepath/#Glob[Go Glob] are also supported here.
+
To fetch all files from a predefined level of subdirectories, the following pattern can be used:
`/var/log/*/*.log`. This fetches all `.log` files from the subfolders of `/var/log`. It does not
fetch log files from the `/var/log` folder itself. Currently it is not possible to recursively
fetch all files in all subdirectories of a directory.

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-cm-tip.asciidoc[]

[[config-filebeat-logstash]]
=== Step 3: Configure Filebeat to use Logstash

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-logstash-config.asciidoc[]

[[filebeat-template]]
=== Step 4: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 5: Set up the Kibana dashboards

include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[[filebeat-starting]]
=== Step 6: Start Filebeat

Start Filebeat by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Filebeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Filebeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

["source", "shell", subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
docker run {dockerimage}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*mac and linux:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root filebeat.yml <1>
sudo ./filebeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Filebeat as root, so you need to change ownership
of the configuration file, or run Filebeat with `--strict.perms=false`
specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

[source,shell]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Filebeat> Start-Service filebeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------


By default, Windows log files are stored in `C:\ProgramData\filebeat\Logs`.

Filebeat is now ready to send log files to your defined output.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 7: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to explore Filebeat data in Kibana, we've created
example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards earlier when you
ran the `setup` command.

include::../../libbeat/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

These dashboards are designed to work out-of-the box when you use
<<filebeat-modules-overview,Filebeat modules>>. However, you can also use them
as examples and {kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs
even if you aren't using Filebeat modules.

To populate the example dashboards with data, you need to either
<<configuring-ingest-node,define ingest node pipelines>> or use Logstash to
parse the data into the fields expected by the dashboards. If you are using
Logstash, see the
{logstashdoc}/logstash-config-for-filebeat-modules.html[configuration examples]
in the Logstash documentation for help parsing the log formats supported
by the dashboards.

Here is an example of the Filebeat system dashboard:

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/kibana-system.png[]
