metricbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, before:

[id="{beatname_lc}-getting-started"]
== Getting started with {beatname_uc}

{beatname_uc} helps you monitor your servers and the services they host by
collecting metrics from the operating system and services.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<{beatname_lc}-installation>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[id="{beatname_lc}-installation"]
=== Step 1: Install {beatname_uc}

You should install {beatname_uc} as close as possible to the service you want to
monitor. For example, if you have four servers with MySQL running, it's
recommended that you run {beatname_uc} on each server. This allows {beatname_uc} to
access your service from localhost and does not cause any additional network
traffic or prevent {beatname_uc} from collecting metrics when there are network
problems. Metrics from multiple {beatname_uc} instances will be combined on the
Elasticsearch server.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i {beatname_lc}-{version}-amd64.deb
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi {beatname_lc}-{version}-x86_64.rpm
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source", "shell", subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
docker pull {dockerimage}
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the {beatname_uc} Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the +{beatname_lc}-<version>-windows+` directory to +{beatname_uc}+.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install {beatname_uc}
as a Windows service:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}'
PS C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}> .{backslash}install-service-{beatname_lc}.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the
execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For
example: +PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File
.{backslash}install-service-{beatname_lc}.ps1+.

endif::[]

Before starting {beatname_uc}, you should look at the configuration options in the
configuration file, for example +C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}{backslash}{beatname_lc}.yml+.
For more information about these options, see
<<configuring-howto-{beatname_lc}>>.

[id="{beatname_lc}-configuration"]
=== Step 2: Configure {beatname_uc}

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

When you configure {beatname_uc}, you need to specify which
<<{beatname_lc}-modules,modules>> to run. {beatname_uc} uses modules to collect
metrics. Each module defines the basic logic for collecting data from a specific
service, such as Redis or MySQL. A module consists of metricsets that fetch and
structure the data. Read <<how-{beatname_lc}-works>> to learn more.

To configure {beatname_uc}:

. Enable the modules that you want to run. If you accept the default
configuration without enabling additional modules, {beatname_uc} collects system
metrics only.
+
You can either enable the default module configurations defined in the
`modules.d` directory (recommended), or add the module configs to the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ file. The `modules.d` directory contains default
configurations for all available {beatname_uc} modules. 
+
If you are using a Docker image, see <<running-on-docker>>.
+
The following examples enable the `apache` and `mysql` configs in the
`modules.d` directory :
+
*deb and rpm:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} modules enable apache mysql
----
+
*mac and linux:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} modules enable apache mysql
----
+
*win:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe modules enable apache mysql
----
+
See the <<modules-command>> to learn more about this command.
+
To change the default module configurations, modify the `.yml` files in the
`modules.d` directory. See <<module-config-options>> for more about available
settings.
+
See <<configuration-{beatname_lc}>> if you want to add the module configs to the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ file rather than using the `modules.d` directory.

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-template"]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-starting"]
=== Step 5: Start {beatname_uc}

Run {beatname_uc} by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start {beatname_uc} on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start {beatname_uc} in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker>>.

*mac and linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root {beatname_lc}.yml <1>
sudo chown root modules.d/system.yml <1>
sudo ./{beatname_lc} -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running {beatname_uc} as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file and any configurations enabled in the `modules.d` directory,
or run {beatname_uc} with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}> Start-Service {beatname_lc}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default the log files are stored in +C:{backslash}ProgramData{backslash}{beatname_lc}{backslash}Logs+.

NOTE: On Windows, statistics about system load and swap usage are currently
not captured.

==== Test the {beatname_uc} installation

To verify that your server's statistics are present in Elasticsearch, issue
the following command:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/{beatname_lc}-*/_search?pretty'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that you replace `localhost:9200` with the address of your
Elasticsearch instance.

On Windows, if you don't have cURL installed, simply point your browser to the
URL.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to start monitoring your servers in Kibana,
we have created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards
earlier when you ran the `setup` command.

include::../../libbeat/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/{beatname_lc}_system_dashboard.png[{beatname_uc} Dashboard]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc PRs (#9304, #9370, #9391)   (#9446)
* [Docs] Updates for central management (#9304)

* [Docs] Updates for central management

* Modify wording about dashboard loading

* Run make update

* [Docs] Add Journalbeat and Functionbeat to overview docs (#9370)

* Beats Docker container documentation (#9391)

* added run commands

* added sample config file

* added config files

* added setup

* added docker config

* link to docker instructions from install page

* linked to kubernetes docs from getting started/install

* enable hints based autodiscover

* put docker files in standard root dir of beats

* added hints discovery to docker yml  file

* added details around elasticsearch output

* fixed volume syntax

* grammar

* added setup and run commands, configured sample yml files for hints based autodiscover, and added args (like Linux Capabilities) required.

* moved example docker YAML files to deploy/docker

* removed superfluous comment

* state that the configs are examples

* Remove conditions and add minor edits

metricbeat/docs/gettingstarted.asciidoc, after:

[id="{beatname_lc}-getting-started"]
== Getting started with {beatname_uc}

{beatname_uc} helps you monitor your servers and the services they host by
collecting metrics from the operating system and services.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<{beatname_lc}-installation>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<{beatname_lc}-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>

[id="{beatname_lc}-installation"]
=== Step 1: Install {beatname_uc}

You should install {beatname_uc} as close as possible to the service you want to
monitor. For example, if you have four servers with MySQL running, it's
recommended that you run {beatname_uc} on each server. This allows {beatname_uc} to
access your service from localhost and does not cause any additional network
traffic or prevent {beatname_uc} from collecting metrics when there are network
problems. Metrics from multiple {beatname_uc} instances will be combined on the
Elasticsearch server.

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i {beatname_lc}-{version}-amd64.deb
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi {beatname_lc}-{version}-x86_64.rpm
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O https://artifacts.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}/{beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf {beatname_lc}-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[kubernetes]]
*kubernetes:*

See <<running-on-kubernetes, Running on Kubernetes>> for deploying with Kubernetes.

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {stack-version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the {beatname_uc} Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/{beatname_lc}[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the +{beatname_lc}-<version>-windows+` directory to +{beatname_uc}+.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install {beatname_uc}
as a Windows service:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}'
PS C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}> .{backslash}install-service-{beatname_lc}.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the
execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For
example: +PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File
.{backslash}install-service-{beatname_lc}.ps1+.

endif::[]

Before starting {beatname_uc}, you should look at the configuration options in the
configuration file, for example +C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}{backslash}{beatname_lc}.yml+.
For more information about these options, see
<<configuring-howto-{beatname_lc}>>.

[id="{beatname_lc}-configuration"]
=== Step 2: Configure {beatname_uc}

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

When you configure {beatname_uc}, you need to specify which
<<{beatname_lc}-modules,modules>> to run. {beatname_uc} uses modules to collect
metrics. Each module defines the basic logic for collecting data from a specific
service, such as Redis or MySQL. A module consists of metricsets that fetch and
structure the data. Read <<how-{beatname_lc}-works>> to learn more.

To configure {beatname_uc}:

. Enable the modules that you want to run. If you accept the default
configuration without enabling additional modules, {beatname_uc} collects system
metrics only.
+
You can either enable the default module configurations defined in the
`modules.d` directory (recommended), or add the module configs to the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ file. The `modules.d` directory contains default
configurations for all available {beatname_uc} modules. 
+
If you are using a Docker image, see <<running-on-docker>>.
+
The following examples enable the `apache` and `mysql` configs in the
`modules.d` directory :
+
*deb and rpm:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
{beatname_lc} modules enable apache mysql
----
+
*mac and linux:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
./{beatname_lc} modules enable apache mysql
----
+
*win:*
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----
PS > .{backslash}{beatname_lc}.exe modules enable apache mysql
----
+
See the <<modules-command>> to learn more about this command.
+
To change the default module configurations, modify the `.yml` files in the
`modules.d` directory. See <<module-config-options>> for more about available
settings.
+
See <<configuration-{beatname_lc}>> if you want to add the module configs to the
+{beatname_lc}.yml+ file rather than using the `modules.d` directory.

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-cm-tip.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-template"]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::../../libbeat/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

include::../../libbeat/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[id="{beatname_lc}-starting"]
=== Step 5: Start {beatname_uc}

Run {beatname_uc} by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start {beatname_uc} on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start {beatname_uc} in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc} start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker>>.

*mac and linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root {beatname_lc}.yml <1>
sudo chown root modules.d/system.yml <1>
sudo ./{beatname_lc} -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running {beatname_uc} as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file and any configurations enabled in the `modules.d` directory,
or run {beatname_uc} with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:{backslash}Program Files{backslash}{beatname_uc}> Start-Service {beatname_lc}
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default the log files are stored in +C:{backslash}ProgramData{backslash}{beatname_lc}{backslash}Logs+.

NOTE: On Windows, statistics about system load and swap usage are currently
not captured.

==== Test the {beatname_uc} installation

To verify that your server's statistics are present in Elasticsearch, issue
the following command:

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -XGET 'http://localhost:9200/{beatname_lc}-*/_search?pretty'
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Make sure that you replace `localhost:9200` with the address of your
Elasticsearch instance.

On Windows, if you don't have cURL installed, simply point your browser to the
URL.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to start monitoring your servers in Kibana,
we have created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards
earlier when you ran the `setup` command.

include::../../libbeat/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/{beatname_lc}_system_dashboard.png[{beatname_uc} Dashboard]
