heartbeat/docs/fields.asciidoc, before:


////
This file is generated! See _meta/fields.yml and scripts/generate_field_docs.py
////

[[exported-fields]]
= Exported fields

[partintro]

--
This document describes the fields that are exported by Heartbeat. They are
grouped in the following categories:

* <<exported-fields-alias>>
* <<exported-fields-beat>>
* <<exported-fields-cloud>>
* <<exported-fields-common>>
* <<exported-fields-docker-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-host-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-http>>
* <<exported-fields-icmp>>
* <<exported-fields-kubernetes-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-resolve>>
* <<exported-fields-socks5>>
* <<exported-fields-tcp>>
* <<exported-fields-tls>>

--
[[exported-fields-alias]]
== Alias fields

Alias fields for compatibility with 7.x.



*`host.hostname`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: beat.hostname

--

*`event.timezone`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: beat.timezone

--

*`cloud.provider`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.provider

--

*`cloud.instance.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.instance_id

--

*`cloud.instance.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.instance_name

--

*`cloud.machine.type`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.machine_type

--

*`cloud.availability_zone`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.availability_zone

--

*`cloud.project.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.project_id

--

*`cloud.region`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.region

--

*`container.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.id

--

*`container.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.name

--

*`container.image.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.image

--

[[exported-fields-beat]]
== Beat fields

Contains common beat fields available in all event types.



*`beat.name`*::
+
--
The name of the Beat sending the log messages. If the Beat name is set in the configuration file, then that value is used. If it is not set, the hostname is used. To set the Beat name, use the `name` option in the configuration file.


--

*`beat.hostname`*::
+
--
The hostname as returned by the operating system on which the Beat is running.


--

*`beat.timezone`*::
+
--
The timezone as returned by the operating system on which the Beat is running.


--

*`beat.version`*::
+
--
The version of the beat that generated this event.


--

*`@timestamp`*::
+
--
type: date

example: August 26th 2016, 12:35:53.332

format: date

required: True

The timestamp when the event log record was generated.


--

*`tags`*::
+
--
Arbitrary tags that can be set per Beat and per transaction type.


--

*`fields`*::
+
--
type: object

Contains user configurable fields.


--

[float]
== error fields

Error fields containing additional info in case of errors.



*`error.message`*::
+
--
type: text

Error message.


--

*`error.code`*::
+
--
type: long

Error code.


--

*`error.type`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Error type.


--

[[exported-fields-cloud]]
== Cloud provider metadata fields

Metadata from cloud providers added by the add_cloud_metadata processor.



*`meta.cloud.provider`*::
+
--
example: ec2

Name of the cloud provider. Possible values are ec2, gce, or digitalocean.


--

*`meta.cloud.instance_id`*::
+
--
Instance ID of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.instance_name`*::
+
--
Instance name of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.machine_type`*::
+
--
example: t2.medium

Machine type of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.availability_zone`*::
+
--
example: us-east-1c

Availability zone in which this host is running.


--

*`meta.cloud.project_id`*::
+
--
example: project-x

Name of the project in Google Cloud.


--

*`meta.cloud.region`*::
+
--
Region in which this host is running.


--

[[exported-fields-common]]
== Common heartbeat monitor fields

None


[float]
== monitor fields

Common monitor fields.



*`monitor.type`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitor type.


--

*`monitor.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitors configured name


--

*`monitor.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitors full job ID as used by heartbeat.


--

[float]
== duration fields

Total monitoring test duration


*`monitor.duration.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

*`monitor.scheme`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Address url scheme. For example `tcp`, `tls`, `http`, and `https`.


--

*`monitor.host`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname of service being monitored. Can be missing, if service is monitored by IP.


--

*`monitor.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

IP of service being monitored. If service is monitored by hostname, the `ip` field contains the resolved ip address for the current host.


--

*`monitor.status`*::
+
--
type: keyword

required: True

Indicator if monitor could validate the service to be available.


--

[[exported-fields-docker-processor]]
== Docker fields

Docker stats collected from Docker.




*`docker.container.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Unique container id.


--

*`docker.container.image`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Name of the image the container was built on.


--

*`docker.container.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Container name.


--

*`docker.container.labels`*::
+
--
type: object

Image labels.


--

[[exported-fields-host-processor]]
== Host fields

Info collected for the host machine.




*`host.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname.


--

*`host.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Unique host id.


--

*`host.architecture`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Host architecture (e.g. x86_64, arm, ppc, mips).


--

*`host.os.platform`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS platform (e.g. centos, ubuntu, windows).


--

*`host.os.version`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS version.


--

*`host.os.family`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS family (e.g. redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).


--

*`host.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

List of IP-addresses.


--

*`host.mac`*::
+
--
type: keyword

List of hardware-addresses, usually MAC-addresses.


--

[[exported-fields-http]]
== HTTP monitor fields

None


[float]
== http fields

HTTP related fields.



*`http.url`*::
+
--
type: text

Service url used by monitor.


*`http.url.raw`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The service url used by monitor. This is a non-analyzed field that is useful for aggregations.


--

--

[float]
== response fields

Service response parameters.



*`http.response.status_code`*::
+
--
type: integer

Response status code.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

HTTP layer round trip times.



[float]
== validate fields

Duration between first byte of HTTP request being written and
response being processed by validator. Duration based on already
available network connection.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed
      to read the body.



*`http.rtt.validate.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== validate_body fields

Duration of validator required to read and validate the response
body.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed
      to read the body.



*`http.rtt.validate_body.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== write_request fields

Duration of sending the complete HTTP request. Duration based on already available network connection.


*`http.rtt.write_request.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== response_header fields

Time required between sending the start of sending the HTTP request and first byte from HTTP response being read. Duration based on already available network connection.


*`http.rtt.response_header.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

*`http.rtt.content.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Time required to retrieved the content in micro seconds.

--

[float]
== total fields

Duration required to process the HTTP transaction. Starts with
the initial TCP connection attempt. Ends with after validator
did check the response.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed.



*`http.rtt.total.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-icmp]]
== ICMP fields

None


[float]
== icmp fields

IP ping fields.



*`icmp.requests`*::
+
--
type: integer

Number if ICMP EchoRequests send.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

ICMP Echo Request and Reply round trip time


*`icmp.rtt.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-kubernetes-processor]]
== Kubernetes fields

Kubernetes metadata added by the kubernetes processor




*`kubernetes.pod.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes pod name


--

*`kubernetes.pod.uid`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes Pod UID


--

*`kubernetes.namespace`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes namespace


--

*`kubernetes.node.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes node name


--

*`kubernetes.labels`*::
+
--
type: object

Kubernetes labels map


--

*`kubernetes.annotations`*::
+
--
type: object

Kubernetes annotations map


--

*`kubernetes.container.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes container name


--

*`kubernetes.container.image`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes container image


--

[[exported-fields-resolve]]
== Host lookup fields

None


[float]
== resolve fields

Host lookup fields.



*`resolve.host`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname of service being monitored.


--

*`resolve.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

IP address found for the given host.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

Duration required to resolve an IP from hostname.


*`resolve.rtt.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-socks5]]
== SOCKS5 proxy fields

None


[float]
== socks5 fields

SOCKS5 proxy related fields:



[float]
== rtt fields

TLS layer round trip times.



[float]
== connect fields

Time required to establish a connection via SOCKS5 to endpoint based on available connection to SOCKS5 proxy.



*`socks5.rtt.connect.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-tcp]]
== TCP layer fields

None


[float]
== tcp fields

TCP network layer related fields.



*`tcp.port`*::
+
--
type: integer

Service port number.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

TCP layer round trip times.



[float]
== connect fields

Duration required to establish a TCP connection based on already available IP address.



*`tcp.rtt.connect.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== validate fields

Duration of validation step based on existing TCP connection.



*`tcp.rtt.validate.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-tls]]
== TLS encryption layer fields

None


[float]
== tls fields

TLS layer related fields.



*`tls.certificate_not_valid_before`*::
+
--
type: date

Earliest time at which the connection's certificates are valid.

--

*`tls.certificate_not_valid_after`*::
+
--
type: date

Latest time at which the connection's certificates are valid.

--

[float]
== rtt fields

TLS layer round trip times.



[float]
== handshake fields

Time required to finish TLS handshake based on already available network connection.



*`tls.rtt.handshake.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

Commit message:

Cherry-pick #9408 to 6.x: Add event.dataset field (#9561)
* Add event.dataset field (#9408)

This brings us closer to ECS compliance by adding the event.dataset field.

All heartbeat events are considered part of the 'uptime' dataset, even though their data may differ.

The key thing defining this dataset is the presence of the `monitor.status` field

(cherry picked from commit 4e2fef1cac9f137884bf0903efe0fd25bdfdf6b1)

* Fix test failures by cleaning more keys

* Add event.dataset to common fields

heartbeat/docs/fields.asciidoc, after:


////
This file is generated! See _meta/fields.yml and scripts/generate_field_docs.py
////

[[exported-fields]]
= Exported fields

[partintro]

--
This document describes the fields that are exported by Heartbeat. They are
grouped in the following categories:

* <<exported-fields-alias>>
* <<exported-fields-beat>>
* <<exported-fields-cloud>>
* <<exported-fields-common>>
* <<exported-fields-docker-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-host-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-http>>
* <<exported-fields-icmp>>
* <<exported-fields-kubernetes-processor>>
* <<exported-fields-resolve>>
* <<exported-fields-socks5>>
* <<exported-fields-tcp>>
* <<exported-fields-tls>>

--
[[exported-fields-alias]]
== Alias fields

Alias fields for compatibility with 7.x.



*`host.hostname`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: beat.hostname

--

*`event.timezone`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: beat.timezone

--

*`cloud.provider`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.provider

--

*`cloud.instance.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.instance_id

--

*`cloud.instance.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.instance_name

--

*`cloud.machine.type`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.machine_type

--

*`cloud.availability_zone`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.availability_zone

--

*`cloud.project.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.project_id

--

*`cloud.region`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: meta.cloud.region

--

*`container.id`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.id

--

*`container.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.name

--

*`container.image.name`*::
+
--
type: alias

alias to: docker.container.image

--

[[exported-fields-beat]]
== Beat fields

Contains common beat fields available in all event types.



*`beat.name`*::
+
--
The name of the Beat sending the log messages. If the Beat name is set in the configuration file, then that value is used. If it is not set, the hostname is used. To set the Beat name, use the `name` option in the configuration file.


--

*`beat.hostname`*::
+
--
The hostname as returned by the operating system on which the Beat is running.


--

*`beat.timezone`*::
+
--
The timezone as returned by the operating system on which the Beat is running.


--

*`beat.version`*::
+
--
The version of the beat that generated this event.


--

*`@timestamp`*::
+
--
type: date

example: August 26th 2016, 12:35:53.332

format: date

required: True

The timestamp when the event log record was generated.


--

*`tags`*::
+
--
Arbitrary tags that can be set per Beat and per transaction type.


--

*`fields`*::
+
--
type: object

Contains user configurable fields.


--

[float]
== error fields

Error fields containing additional info in case of errors.



*`error.message`*::
+
--
type: text

Error message.


--

*`error.code`*::
+
--
type: long

Error code.


--

*`error.type`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Error type.


--

[[exported-fields-cloud]]
== Cloud provider metadata fields

Metadata from cloud providers added by the add_cloud_metadata processor.



*`meta.cloud.provider`*::
+
--
example: ec2

Name of the cloud provider. Possible values are ec2, gce, or digitalocean.


--

*`meta.cloud.instance_id`*::
+
--
Instance ID of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.instance_name`*::
+
--
Instance name of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.machine_type`*::
+
--
example: t2.medium

Machine type of the host machine.


--

*`meta.cloud.availability_zone`*::
+
--
example: us-east-1c

Availability zone in which this host is running.


--

*`meta.cloud.project_id`*::
+
--
example: project-x

Name of the project in Google Cloud.


--

*`meta.cloud.region`*::
+
--
Region in which this host is running.


--

[[exported-fields-common]]
== Common heartbeat monitor fields

None


[float]
== event fields

Used for context information about the log or metric event itself.


*`event.dataset`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Name of the dataset.

--

[float]
== monitor fields

Common monitor fields.



*`monitor.type`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitor type.


--

*`monitor.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitors configured name


--

*`monitor.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The monitors full job ID as used by heartbeat.


--

[float]
== duration fields

Total monitoring test duration


*`monitor.duration.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

*`monitor.scheme`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Address url scheme. For example `tcp`, `tls`, `http`, and `https`.


--

*`monitor.host`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname of service being monitored. Can be missing, if service is monitored by IP.


--

*`monitor.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

IP of service being monitored. If service is monitored by hostname, the `ip` field contains the resolved ip address for the current host.


--

*`monitor.status`*::
+
--
type: keyword

required: True

Indicator if monitor could validate the service to be available.


--

[[exported-fields-docker-processor]]
== Docker fields

Docker stats collected from Docker.




*`docker.container.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Unique container id.


--

*`docker.container.image`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Name of the image the container was built on.


--

*`docker.container.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Container name.


--

*`docker.container.labels`*::
+
--
type: object

Image labels.


--

[[exported-fields-host-processor]]
== Host fields

Info collected for the host machine.




*`host.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname.


--

*`host.id`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Unique host id.


--

*`host.architecture`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Host architecture (e.g. x86_64, arm, ppc, mips).


--

*`host.os.platform`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS platform (e.g. centos, ubuntu, windows).


--

*`host.os.version`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS version.


--

*`host.os.family`*::
+
--
type: keyword

OS family (e.g. redhat, debian, freebsd, windows).


--

*`host.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

List of IP-addresses.


--

*`host.mac`*::
+
--
type: keyword

List of hardware-addresses, usually MAC-addresses.


--

[[exported-fields-http]]
== HTTP monitor fields

None


[float]
== http fields

HTTP related fields.



*`http.url`*::
+
--
type: text

Service url used by monitor.


*`http.url.raw`*::
+
--
type: keyword

The service url used by monitor. This is a non-analyzed field that is useful for aggregations.


--

--

[float]
== response fields

Service response parameters.



*`http.response.status_code`*::
+
--
type: integer

Response status code.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

HTTP layer round trip times.



[float]
== validate fields

Duration between first byte of HTTP request being written and
response being processed by validator. Duration based on already
available network connection.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed
      to read the body.



*`http.rtt.validate.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== validate_body fields

Duration of validator required to read and validate the response
body.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed
      to read the body.



*`http.rtt.validate_body.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== write_request fields

Duration of sending the complete HTTP request. Duration based on already available network connection.


*`http.rtt.write_request.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== response_header fields

Time required between sending the start of sending the HTTP request and first byte from HTTP response being read. Duration based on already available network connection.


*`http.rtt.response_header.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

*`http.rtt.content.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Time required to retrieved the content in micro seconds.

--

[float]
== total fields

Duration required to process the HTTP transaction. Starts with
the initial TCP connection attempt. Ends with after validator
did check the response.

Note: if validator is not reading body or only a prefix, this
      number does not fully represent the total time needed.



*`http.rtt.total.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-icmp]]
== ICMP fields

None


[float]
== icmp fields

IP ping fields.



*`icmp.requests`*::
+
--
type: integer

Number if ICMP EchoRequests send.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

ICMP Echo Request and Reply round trip time


*`icmp.rtt.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-kubernetes-processor]]
== Kubernetes fields

Kubernetes metadata added by the kubernetes processor




*`kubernetes.pod.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes pod name


--

*`kubernetes.pod.uid`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes Pod UID


--

*`kubernetes.namespace`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes namespace


--

*`kubernetes.node.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes node name


--

*`kubernetes.labels`*::
+
--
type: object

Kubernetes labels map


--

*`kubernetes.annotations`*::
+
--
type: object

Kubernetes annotations map


--

*`kubernetes.container.name`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes container name


--

*`kubernetes.container.image`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Kubernetes container image


--

[[exported-fields-resolve]]
== Host lookup fields

None


[float]
== resolve fields

Host lookup fields.



*`resolve.host`*::
+
--
type: keyword

Hostname of service being monitored.


--

*`resolve.ip`*::
+
--
type: ip

IP address found for the given host.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

Duration required to resolve an IP from hostname.


*`resolve.rtt.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-socks5]]
== SOCKS5 proxy fields

None


[float]
== socks5 fields

SOCKS5 proxy related fields:



[float]
== rtt fields

TLS layer round trip times.



[float]
== connect fields

Time required to establish a connection via SOCKS5 to endpoint based on available connection to SOCKS5 proxy.



*`socks5.rtt.connect.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-tcp]]
== TCP layer fields

None


[float]
== tcp fields

TCP network layer related fields.



*`tcp.port`*::
+
--
type: integer

Service port number.


--

[float]
== rtt fields

TCP layer round trip times.



[float]
== connect fields

Duration required to establish a TCP connection based on already available IP address.



*`tcp.rtt.connect.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[float]
== validate fields

Duration of validation step based on existing TCP connection.



*`tcp.rtt.validate.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--

[[exported-fields-tls]]
== TLS encryption layer fields

None


[float]
== tls fields

TLS layer related fields.



*`tls.certificate_not_valid_before`*::
+
--
type: date

Earliest time at which the connection's certificates are valid.

--

*`tls.certificate_not_valid_after`*::
+
--
type: date

Latest time at which the connection's certificates are valid.

--

[float]
== rtt fields

TLS layer round trip times.



[float]
== handshake fields

Time required to finish TLS handshake based on already available network connection.



*`tls.rtt.handshake.us`*::
+
--
type: long

Duration in microseconds

--
