heartbeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, before:

[[heartbeat-getting-started]]
== Getting Started With Heartbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<heartbeat-installation>>
* <<heartbeat-configuration>>
* <<heartbeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<heartbeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>


[[heartbeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Heartbeat

Unlike most Beats, which you install on edge nodes, you typically install
Heartbeat as part of monitoring service that runs on a separate machine
and possibly even outside of the network where the services that you want to
monitor are running.

//TODO: Add a separate topic that explores deployment scenarios in more detail (like installing on a sub-network where there's a firewall etc.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i heartbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi heartbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf heartbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf heartbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------
endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the Heartbeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/heartbeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the +heartbeat-<version>-windows+ directory to +Heartbeat+.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Heartbeat as
a Windows service:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Heartbeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Heartbeat> .\install-service-heartbeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the
execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For
example:
+PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-heartbeat.ps1+.

endif::[]

Before starting Heartbeat, you should look at the configuration options in
the configuration file, for example +C:\Program Files\Heartbeat\heartbeat.yml+
or +/etc/heartbeat/heartbeat.yml+. For more information about these
options, see <<configuring-howto-heartbeat>>.

[[heartbeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Heartbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

Heartbeat provides monitors to check the status of hosts at set intervals.
You configure each monitor individually. Heartbeat currently provides monitors
for ICMP, TCP, and HTTP (see <<heartbeat-overview>> for more about these
monitors). Here is an example that configures Heartbeat to use an `icmp`
monitor:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: icmp
  schedule: '*/5 * * * * * *'
  hosts: ["myhost"]
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure Heartbeat:

. Specify the list of monitors that you want to enable. Each item in the list
begins with a dash (-). The following example configures Heartbeat to use two
monitors, an `icmp` monitor and a `tcp` monitor:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: icmp
  schedule: '*/5 * * * * * *' <1>
  hosts: ["myhost"]
- type: tcp
  schedule: '@every 5s' <2>
  hosts: ["myhost:12345"]
  mode: any <3>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The `icmp` monitor is scheduled to run exactly every 5 seconds (10:00:00,
10:00:05, and so on). The `schedule` option uses a cron-like syntax based on
https://github.com/gorhill/cronexpr#implementation[this `cronexpr` implementation].
<2> The `tcp` monitor is set to run every 5 seconds from the time when Heartbeat
was started. Heartbeat adds the `@every` keyword to the syntax provided by the
`cronexpr` package.
<3> The `mode` specifies whether to ping one IP (`any`) or all resolvable IPs
(`all`).
+
See <<configuring-howto-heartbeat>> for a full description of each
configuration option.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[[heartbeat-template]]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/dashboards.asciidoc[]

[[heartbeat-starting]]
=== Step 5: Start Heartbeat

Start Heartbeat by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Heartbeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Heartbeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc}-elastic start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*mac and linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root heartbeat.yml <1>
sudo ./heartbeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Heartbeat as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file, or run Heartbeat with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Heartbeat> Start-Service heartbeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, Windows log files are stored in +C:\ProgramData\heartbeat\Logs+.

Heartbeat is now ready to check the status of your services and send
events to your defined output.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to visualize the status of your services, we have
created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards earlier when
you ran the `setup` command.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/heartbeat-statistics.png[Heartbeat statistics]

Commit message:

[Heartbeat] Make dashboard docs point to uptime-contrib. (#11121) (#11193)
These dashboards are now maintained in the new elastic/uptime-contrib repo, so the docs should point there.

(cherry picked from commit 2c34c725d3d1833ddf01614830b72b7d70f87cc5)

heartbeat/docs/getting-started.asciidoc, after:

[[heartbeat-getting-started]]
== Getting Started With Heartbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-getting-started-intro.asciidoc[]

* <<heartbeat-installation>>
* <<heartbeat-configuration>>
* <<heartbeat-template>>
* <<load-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<heartbeat-starting>>
* <<view-kibana-dashboards>>
* <<setup-repositories>>


[[heartbeat-installation]]
=== Step 1: Install Heartbeat

Unlike most Beats, which you install on edge nodes, you typically install
Heartbeat as part of monitoring service that runs on a separate machine
and possibly even outside of the network where the services that you want to
monitor are running.

//TODO: Add a separate topic that explores deployment scenarios in more detail (like installing on a sub-network where there's a firewall etc.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-download-and-install.asciidoc[]

[[deb]]
*deb:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
sudo dpkg -i heartbeat-{version}-amd64.deb
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[rpm]]
*rpm:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
sudo rpm -vi heartbeat-{version}-x86_64.rpm
----------------------------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[mac]]
*mac:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf heartbeat-{version}-darwin-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------

endif::[]

[[linux]]
*linux:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
------------------------------------------------
curl -L -O {downloads}/heartbeat/heartbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
tar xzvf heartbeat-{version}-linux-x86_64.tar.gz
------------------------------------------------
endif::[]

[[docker]]
*docker:*

See <<running-on-docker, Running on Docker>> for deploying Docker containers.

[[win]]
*win:*

ifeval::["{release-state}"=="unreleased"]

Version {version} of {beatname_uc} has not yet been released.

endif::[]

ifeval::["{release-state}"!="unreleased"]

. Download the Heartbeat Windows zip file from the
https://www.elastic.co/downloads/beats/heartbeat[downloads page].

. Extract the contents of the zip file into `C:\Program Files`.

. Rename the +heartbeat-<version>-windows+ directory to +Heartbeat+.

. Open a PowerShell prompt as an Administrator (right-click the PowerShell icon
and select *Run As Administrator*).

. From the PowerShell prompt, run the following commands to install Heartbeat as
a Windows service:
+
["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS > cd 'C:\Program Files\Heartbeat'
PS C:\Program Files\Heartbeat> .\install-service-heartbeat.ps1
----------------------------------------------------------------------

NOTE: If script execution is disabled on your system, you need to set the
execution policy for the current session to allow the script to run. For
example:
+PowerShell.exe -ExecutionPolicy UnRestricted -File .\install-service-heartbeat.ps1+.

endif::[]

Before starting Heartbeat, you should look at the configuration options in
the configuration file, for example +C:\Program Files\Heartbeat\heartbeat.yml+
or +/etc/heartbeat/heartbeat.yml+. For more information about these
options, see <<configuring-howto-heartbeat>>.

[[heartbeat-configuration]]
=== Step 2: Configure Heartbeat

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-configuring.asciidoc[]

Heartbeat provides monitors to check the status of hosts at set intervals.
You configure each monitor individually. Heartbeat currently provides monitors
for ICMP, TCP, and HTTP (see <<heartbeat-overview>> for more about these
monitors). Here is an example that configures Heartbeat to use an `icmp`
monitor:

[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: icmp
  schedule: '*/5 * * * * * *'
  hosts: ["myhost"]
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["myEShost:9200"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------

To configure Heartbeat:

. Specify the list of monitors that you want to enable. Each item in the list
begins with a dash (-). The following example configures Heartbeat to use two
monitors, an `icmp` monitor and a `tcp` monitor:
+
[source,yaml]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
heartbeat.monitors:
- type: icmp
  schedule: '*/5 * * * * * *' <1>
  hosts: ["myhost"]
- type: tcp
  schedule: '@every 5s' <2>
  hosts: ["myhost:12345"]
  mode: any <3>
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> The `icmp` monitor is scheduled to run exactly every 5 seconds (10:00:00,
10:00:05, and so on). The `schedule` option uses a cron-like syntax based on
https://github.com/gorhill/cronexpr#implementation[this `cronexpr` implementation].
<2> The `tcp` monitor is set to run every 5 seconds from the time when Heartbeat
was started. Heartbeat adds the `@every` keyword to the syntax provided by the
`cronexpr` package.
<3> The `mode` specifies whether to ping one IP (`any`) or all resolvable IPs
(`all`).
+
See <<configuring-howto-heartbeat>> for a full description of each
configuration option.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-output.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-kibana-endpoint.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-configure-credentials.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-test-config.asciidoc[]

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/step-look-at-config.asciidoc[]

[[heartbeat-template]]
=== Step 3: Load the index template in Elasticsearch

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/shared-template-load.asciidoc[]

[[load-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 4: Set up the Kibana dashboards

Dashboards for heartbeat can be found in the https://github.com/elastic/uptime-contrib[uptime-contrib] github repository.

[[heartbeat-starting]]
=== Step 5: Start Heartbeat

Start Heartbeat by issuing the appropriate command for your platform. If you
are accessing a secured Elasticsearch cluster, make sure you've configured
credentials as described in <<{beatname_lc}-configuration>>.

NOTE: If you use an init.d script to start Heartbeat on deb or rpm, you can't
specify command line flags (see <<command-line-options>>). To specify flags,
start Heartbeat in the foreground.

*deb and rpm:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo service {beatname_lc}-elastic start
----------------------------------------------------------------------

*mac and linux:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
sudo chown root heartbeat.yml <1>
sudo ./heartbeat -e
----------------------------------------------------------------------
<1> You'll be running Heartbeat as root, so you need to change ownership of the
configuration file, or run Heartbeat with `--strict.perms=false` specified. See
{libbeat}/config-file-permissions.html[Config File Ownership and Permissions]
in the _Beats Platform Reference_.

*win:*

["source","sh",subs="attributes"]
----------------------------------------------------------------------
PS C:\Program Files\Heartbeat> Start-Service heartbeat
----------------------------------------------------------------------

By default, Windows log files are stored in +C:\ProgramData\heartbeat\Logs+.

Heartbeat is now ready to check the status of your services and send
events to your defined output.

[[view-kibana-dashboards]]
=== Step 6: View the sample Kibana dashboards

To make it easier for you to visualize the status of your services, we have
created example {beatname_uc} dashboards. You loaded the dashboards earlier when
you ran the `setup` command.

include::{libbeat-dir}/docs/opendashboards.asciidoc[]

The dashboards are provided as examples. We recommend that you
{kibana-ref}/dashboard.html[customize] them to meet your needs.

[role="screenshot"]
image:./images/heartbeat-statistics.png[Heartbeat statistics]
