libbeat/docs/security/basic-auth.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[beats-basic-auth]]
=== Configure authentication credentials

When sending data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch`
output, {beatname_uc} must either provide basic authentication credentials
or present a client certificate.

To configure authentication credentials for {beatname_uc}:

. Create a writer role that has the following privileges:
+
--
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
* *Cluster*: `manage_index_templates` and `monitor`
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
* *Cluster*: `manage_index_templates`, `monitor`, and
`manage_ingest_pipelines`
endif::[]
* *Index*: `write` and `create_index` on the {beatname_uc} indices 
--
+
You can create roles from the **Management / Roles** UI in {kib} or through the
`role` API. For example, the following request creates a role named
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++:
+
--
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role/{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer
{
  "cluster": ["manage_index_templates","monitor"],
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}-*" ], <1>
      "privileges": ["write","create_index"]
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
<1> If you use a custom {beatname_uc} index pattern, specify that pattern
instead of the default ++{beat_default_index_prefix}-*++ pattern.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role/{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer
{
  "cluster": ["manage_index_templates","monitor","manage_ingest_pipelines"], <1>
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}-*" ], <2>
      "privileges": ["write","create_index"]
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> The `manage_ingest_pipelines` cluster privilege is required to run
{beatname_uc} modules.
<2> If you use a custom {beatname_uc} index pattern, specify that pattern
instead of the default ++{beat_default_index_prefix}-*++ pattern.
endif::[]
--

. Assign the writer role to the user that {beatname_uc} will use to connect to
{es}. If you plan to load the pre-built {kib} dashboards, also assign the
`kibana_user` role. 
ifdef::has_ml_jobs[]
If you plan to load machine learning jobs, assign the `machine_learning_admin`
role.
endif::[]

.. To authenticate as a native user, create a user for {beatname_uc} to use
internally and assign it the writer role, plus any other roles that are
needed.
+
You can create users from the **Management / Users** UI in {kib} or through the
`user` API. For example, following request creates a user
named ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal++ that has the
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user` roles:
+
--
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_xpack/security/user/{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal
{
  "password" : "{pwd}",
  "roles" : [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer","kibana_user"],
  "full_name" : "Internal {beatname_uc} User"
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

--

.. To use PKI authentication, assign the writer role, plus any other roles that are
needed, in the `role_mapping.yml` configuration file. Specify the user by the
distinguished name that appears in its certificate:
+
--
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer:
  - "cn=Internal {beatname_uc} User,ou=example,o=com"
kibana_user:
  - "cn=Internal {beatname_uc} User,ou=example,o=com"
---------------------------------------------------------------


For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/mapping-roles.html#mapping-roles-file[Using Role Mapping Files].
--

. In the {beatname_uc} configuration file, specify authentication credentials
for the `elasticsearch` output:


.. To use basic authentication, configure the `username` and `password` settings.
For example, the following {beatname_uc} output configuration uses the native
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal++ user to connect to {es}: 
+
["source","js",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" <2>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> You created this user earlier.
<2> The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.

.. To use PKI authentication, configure the `certificate` and `key` settings:
+
["source","js",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem" <1>
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The distinguished name (DN) in the certificate must be mapped to
the ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user` roles in the
`role_mapping.yml` configuration file on each node in the {es} cluster.

Commit message:

Backport to 6.5: Multiple doc PRs (#9304, #9370, #9391) (#9441)
* [Docs] Updates for central management (#9304)

* [Docs] Updates for central management

* Modify wording about dashboard loading

* Run make update

* [Docs] Add Journalbeat and Functionbeat to overview docs (#9370)

* Beats Docker container documentation (#9391)

* added run commands

* added sample config file

* added config files

* added setup

* added docker config

* link to docker instructions from install page

* linked to kubernetes docs from getting started/install

* enable hints based autodiscover

* put docker files in standard root dir of beats

* added hints discovery to docker yml  file

* added details around elasticsearch output

* fixed volume syntax

* grammar

* added setup and run commands, configured sample yml files for hints based autodiscover, and added args (like Linux Capabilities) required.

* moved example docker YAML files to deploy/docker

* removed superfluous comment

* state that the configs are examples

* Remove conditions and add minor edits

libbeat/docs/security/basic-auth.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[beats-basic-auth]]
=== Configure authentication credentials

When sending data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch`
output, {beatname_uc} must either provide basic authentication credentials
or present a client certificate.

To configure authentication credentials for {beatname_uc}:

. Create a writer role that has the following privileges:
+
--
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
* *Cluster*: `manage_index_templates` and `monitor`
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
* *Cluster*: `manage_index_templates`, `monitor`, and
`manage_ingest_pipelines`
endif::[]
* *Index*: `write` and `create_index` on the {beatname_uc} indices 
--
+
You can create roles from the **Management / Roles** UI in {kib} or through the
`role` API. For example, the following request creates a role named
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++:
+
--
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role/{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer
{
  "cluster": ["manage_index_templates","monitor"],
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}-*" ], <1>
      "privileges": ["write","create_index"]
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
<1> If you use a custom {beatname_uc} index pattern, specify that pattern
instead of the default ++{beat_default_index_prefix}-*++ pattern.
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST _xpack/security/role/{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer
{
  "cluster": ["manage_index_templates","monitor","manage_ingest_pipelines"], <1>
  "indices": [
    {
      "names": [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}-*" ], <2>
      "privileges": ["write","create_index"]
    }
  ]
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
<1> The `manage_ingest_pipelines` cluster privilege is required to run
{beatname_uc} modules.
<2> If you use a custom {beatname_uc} index pattern, specify that pattern
instead of the default ++{beat_default_index_prefix}-*++ pattern.
endif::[]
--

. Assign the writer role to the user that {beatname_uc} will use to connect to
{es}. Make sure you also assign any roles that are required for specific
features. For the list of features and required roles, see <<feature-roles>>.

.. To authenticate as a native user, create a user for {beatname_uc} to use
internally and assign it the writer role, plus any other roles that are
needed.
+
You can create users from the **Management / Users** UI in {kib} or through the
`user` API. For example, following request creates a user
named ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal++ that has the
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user` roles:
+
--
["source","sh",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_xpack/security/user/{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal
{
  "password" : "{pwd}",
  "roles" : [ "{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer","kibana_user"],
  "full_name" : "Internal {beatname_uc} User"
}
---------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

--

.. To use PKI authentication, assign the writer role, plus any other roles that are
needed, in the `role_mapping.yml` configuration file. Specify the user by the
distinguished name that appears in its certificate:
+
--
["source","yaml",subs="attributes,callouts"]
---------------------------------------------------------------
{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer:
  - "cn=Internal {beatname_uc} User,ou=example,o=com"
kibana_user:
  - "cn=Internal {beatname_uc} User,ou=example,o=com"
---------------------------------------------------------------


For more information, see
{xpack-ref}/mapping-roles.html#mapping-roles-file[Using Role Mapping Files].
--

. In the {beatname_uc} configuration file, specify authentication credentials
for the `elasticsearch` output:


.. To use basic authentication, configure the `username` and `password` settings.
For example, the following {beatname_uc} output configuration uses the native
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal++ user to connect to {es}: 
+
["source","js",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  username: "{beat_default_index_prefix}_internal" <1>
  password: "{pwd}" <2>
--------------------------------------------------
<1> You created this user earlier.
<2> The example shows a hard-coded password, but you should store sensitive
values in the <<keystore,secrets keystore>>.

.. To use PKI authentication, configure the `certificate` and `key` settings:
+
["source","js",subs="attributes,callouts"]
--------------------------------------------------
output.elasticsearch:
  hosts: ["localhost:9200"]
  ssl.certificate: "/etc/pki/client/cert.pem" <1>
  ssl.key: "/etc/pki/client/cert.key"
--------------------------------------------------
<1> The distinguished name (DN) in the certificate must be mapped to
the ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user` roles in the
`role_mapping.yml` configuration file on each node in the {es} cluster.
