libbeat/docs/security/securing-beats.asciidoc, before:

[role="xpack"]
[[securing-beats]]
== Configure {beatname_uc} to use {security}

++++
<titleabbrev>Use {security}</titleabbrev>
++++

If you want {beatname_uc} to connect to a cluster that has
{securitydoc}/xpack-security.html[{security}] enabled, there are extra
configuration steps:

. <<beats-basic-auth>>.
+
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
To send data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch` output,
{beatname_uc} needs to authenticate as a user who can manage index templates,
monitor the cluster, create indices, read and write to the indices
it creates, and manage ingest pipelines. 
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
To send data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch` output,
{beatname_uc} needs to authenticate as a user who can manage index templates,
monitor the cluster, create indices, and read and write to the indices
it creates. 
endif::[]

. <<beats-user-access>>.
+
To search the indexed {beatname_uc} data and visualize it in {kib}, users need
access to the indices {beatname_uc} creates.

. <<beats-tls>>.
+
If encryption is enabled on the cluster, you need to enable HTTPS in the
{beatname_uc} configuration.

. <<beats-system-user>>.
+
{beatname_uc} uses the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user to send monitoring data to {es}. If
you plan to monitor {beatname_uc} in {kib} and have not yet set up the
password, set it up now.

For more information about {security}, see
{xpack-ref}/xpack-security.html[Securing the {stack}].

[float]
=== {beatname_uc} features that require authorization

After securing {beatname_uc}, make sure your users have the roles (or associated
privileges) required to use these {beatname_uc} features. You must create the
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader++ roles (see <<beats-basic-auth>> and
<<beats-user-access>>).
ifdef::has_ml_jobs[]
The `machine_learning_admin` and `kibana_user` roles are {xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in].
endif::[]
ifndef::has_ml_jobs[]
The `kibana_user` role is {xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in].
endif::[]

[options="header"]
|=======
|Feature | Role
|Send data to a secured cluster   | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
|Run Filebeat modules | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++
endif::[]
|Load index templates | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user`
ifndef::no_dashboards[]
|Load {beatname_uc} dashboards into {kib} | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user`
endif::[]
ifdef::has_ml_jobs[]
|Load machine learning jobs | `machine_learning_admin`
endif::[]
|Read indices created by {beatname_uc} | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader++ 
ifndef::no_dashboards[]
|View {beatname_uc} dashboards in {kib} | `kibana_user`
endif::[]
|=======

include::basic-auth.asciidoc[]

include::user-access.asciidoc[]

include::tls.asciidoc[]

include::beats-system.asciidoc[]

Commit message:

Backport to 6.x: Multiple doc PRs (#9304, #9370, #9391)   (#9446)
* [Docs] Updates for central management (#9304)

* [Docs] Updates for central management

* Modify wording about dashboard loading

* Run make update

* [Docs] Add Journalbeat and Functionbeat to overview docs (#9370)

* Beats Docker container documentation (#9391)

* added run commands

* added sample config file

* added config files

* added setup

* added docker config

* link to docker instructions from install page

* linked to kubernetes docs from getting started/install

* enable hints based autodiscover

* put docker files in standard root dir of beats

* added hints discovery to docker yml  file

* added details around elasticsearch output

* fixed volume syntax

* grammar

* added setup and run commands, configured sample yml files for hints based autodiscover, and added args (like Linux Capabilities) required.

* moved example docker YAML files to deploy/docker

* removed superfluous comment

* state that the configs are examples

* Remove conditions and add minor edits

libbeat/docs/security/securing-beats.asciidoc, after:

[role="xpack"]
[[securing-beats]]
== Configure {beatname_uc} to use {security}

++++
<titleabbrev>Use {security}</titleabbrev>
++++

If you want {beatname_uc} to connect to a cluster that has
{securitydoc}/xpack-security.html[{security}] enabled, there are extra
configuration steps:

. <<beats-basic-auth>>.
+
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
To send data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch` output,
{beatname_uc} needs to authenticate as a user who can manage index templates,
monitor the cluster, create indices, read and write to the indices
it creates, and manage ingest pipelines. 
endif::[]
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"!="filebeat"]
To send data to a secured cluster through the `elasticsearch` output,
{beatname_uc} needs to authenticate as a user who can manage index templates,
monitor the cluster, create indices, and read and write to the indices
it creates. 
endif::[]

. <<beats-user-access>>.
+
To search the indexed {beatname_uc} data and visualize it in {kib}, users need
access to the indices {beatname_uc} creates.

. <<beats-tls>>.
+
If encryption is enabled on the cluster, you need to enable HTTPS in the
{beatname_uc} configuration.

. <<beats-system-user>>.
+
{beatname_uc} uses the +{beat_monitoring_user}+ user to send monitoring data to {es}. If
you plan to monitor {beatname_uc} in {kib} and have not yet set up the
password, set it up now.

For more information about {security}, see
{xpack-ref}/xpack-security.html[Securing the {stack}].

[float]
[[feature-roles]]
=== {beatname_uc} features that require authorization

After securing {beatname_uc}, make sure your users have the roles (or associated
privileges) required to use these {beatname_uc} features. You must create the
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and
++{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader++ roles (see <<beats-basic-auth>> and
<<beats-user-access>>). The other roles are
{xpack-ref}/built-in-roles.html[built-in].

[options="header"]
|=======
|Feature | Role
|Send data to a secured cluster   | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++
ifeval::["{beatname_lc}"=="filebeat"]
|Run Filebeat modules | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++
endif::[]
|Load index templates | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user`
ifndef::no_dashboards[]
|Load {beatname_uc} dashboards into {kib} | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_writer++ and `kibana_user`
endif::[]
ifdef::has_ml_jobs[]
|Load machine learning jobs | `machine_learning_admin`
endif::[]
|Read indices created by {beatname_uc} | ++{beat_default_index_prefix}_reader++ 
ifndef::no_dashboards[]
|View {beatname_uc} dashboards in {kib} | `kibana_user`
endif::[]
ifdef::has_central_config[]
|Store and manage configurations in a central location in {kib} | `beats_admin`
endif::[]
|=======

include::basic-auth.asciidoc[]

include::user-access.asciidoc[]

include::tls.asciidoc[]

include::beats-system.asciidoc[]
