metricbeat/module/system/process/_meta/docs.asciidoc, before:

The System `process` metricset provides process statistics. One document is
provided for each process.

This metricset is available on:

- FreeBSD
- Linux
- macOS
- Windows

[float]
=== Configuration

*`processes`*:: When the `process` metricset is enabled, you can use the
`processes` option to define a list of regexp expressions to filter the
processes that are reported. For more complex filtering, you should use the
`processors` configuration option. See <<filtering-and-enhancing-data>> for more
information.
+
The following example config returns metrics for all processes:
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  processes: ['.*']
----

*`process.cgroups.enabled`*:: When the `process` metricset is enabled, you can
use this boolean configuration option to disable cgroup metrics. By default
cgroup metrics collection is enabled.
+
The following example config disables cgroup metrics on Linux.
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.cgroups.enabled: false
----

*`process.cmdline.cache.enabled`*:: This metricset caches the command line args
for a running process by default. This means if you alter the command line for a
process while this metricset is running, these changes are not detected. Caching
can be disabled by setting `process.cmdline.cache.enabled: false` in the
configuration.

*`process.env.whitelist`*:: This metricset can collect the environment variables
that were used to start the process. This feature is available on Linux, Darwin,
and FreeBSD. No environment variables are collected by default because they
could contain sensitive information. You must configure the environment
variables that you wish to collect by specifying a list of regular expressions
that match the variable name.
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.env.whitelist:
  - '^PATH$'
  - '^SSH_.*'
----

*`process.include_cpu_ticks`*:: By default the cumulative CPU tick values
are not reported by this metricset (only percentages are reported). Setting
this option to true will enable the reporting of the raw CPU tick values
(for user, system, and total CPU time).
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.include_cpu_ticks: true
----

*`process.include_top_n`*:: These options allow you to filter out all processes
that are not in the top N by CPU or memory, in order to reduce the number of
documents created. If both the `by_cpu` and `by_memory` options are used, the
union of the two sets is included.

*`process.include_top_n.enabled`*:: Set to false to disable the top N feature
and include all processes, regardless of the other options. The default is
`true`, but nothing is filtered unless one of the other options (`by_cpu` or
`by_memory`) is set to a non-zero value.

*`process.include_top_n.by_cpu`*::  How many processes to include from the top
by CPU. The processes are sorted by the `system.process.cpu.total.pct` field.
The default is 0.

*`process.include_top_n.by_memory`*:: How many processes to include from the top
by memory. The processes are sorted by the `system.process.memory.rss.bytes`
field. The default is 0.

Commit message:

Add setting to disable cgroup metrics per core (#9589) (#9591)
(cherry picked from commit c61a9bf5825925e232488a2069417141208005f3)

metricbeat/module/system/process/_meta/docs.asciidoc, after:

The System `process` metricset provides process statistics. One document is
provided for each process.

This metricset is available on:

- FreeBSD
- Linux
- macOS
- Windows

[float]
=== Configuration

*`processes`*:: When the `process` metricset is enabled, you can use the
`processes` option to define a list of regexp expressions to filter the
processes that are reported. For more complex filtering, you should use the
`processors` configuration option. See <<filtering-and-enhancing-data>> for more
information.
+
The following example config returns metrics for all processes:
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  processes: ['.*']
----

*`process.cgroups.enabled`*:: When the `process` metricset is enabled, you can
use this boolean configuration option to disable cgroup metrics. By default
cgroup metrics collection is enabled.
+
The following example config disables cgroup metrics on Linux.
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.cgroups.enabled: false
----

*`process.cmdline.cache.enabled`*:: This metricset caches the command line args
for a running process by default. This means if you alter the command line for a
process while this metricset is running, these changes are not detected. Caching
can be disabled by setting `process.cmdline.cache.enabled: false` in the
configuration.

*`process.env.whitelist`*:: This metricset can collect the environment variables
that were used to start the process. This feature is available on Linux, Darwin,
and FreeBSD. No environment variables are collected by default because they
could contain sensitive information. You must configure the environment
variables that you wish to collect by specifying a list of regular expressions
that match the variable name.
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.env.whitelist:
  - '^PATH$'
  - '^SSH_.*'
----

*`process.include_cpu_ticks`*:: By default the cumulative CPU tick values
are not reported by this metricset (only percentages are reported). Setting
this option to true will enable the reporting of the raw CPU tick values
(for user, system, and total CPU time).
+
[source,yaml]
----
metricbeat.modules:
- module: system
  metricsets: ["process"]
  process.include_cpu_ticks: true
----

*`process.include_per_cpu`*:: By default metrics per cpu are reported when
available. Setting this option to false will disable the reporting of these
metrics.

*`process.include_top_n`*:: These options allow you to filter out all processes
that are not in the top N by CPU or memory, in order to reduce the number of
documents created. If both the `by_cpu` and `by_memory` options are used, the
union of the two sets is included.

*`process.include_top_n.enabled`*:: Set to false to disable the top N feature
and include all processes, regardless of the other options. The default is
`true`, but nothing is filtered unless one of the other options (`by_cpu` or
`by_memory`) is set to a non-zero value.

*`process.include_top_n.by_cpu`*::  How many processes to include from the top
by CPU. The processes are sorted by the `system.process.cpu.total.pct` field.
The default is 0.

*`process.include_top_n.by_memory`*:: How many processes to include from the top
by memory. The processes are sorted by the `system.process.memory.rss.bytes`
field. The default is 0.
